**Cloud Native Computing Foundation**

Minutes of a meeting of the Governing Board

November 1, 2021

A meeting of the Governing Board of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (“CNCF”), which is part of The Linux Foundation, was held on November 1, 2021 from 4:00-6:00 PM PT time via an in-person meeting at Linux Foundation Member Summit at Silverado Resort in Napa, California and via Zoom teleconference.

The following members of the Governing Board, constituting a quorum under the CNCF Charter, were present:

Li (Mark) Yi, Alibaba  
Bob Wise, Amazon Web Services  
Arun Gupta, Apple, Governing Board Chair  
Kevin Ryan, Arm  
Vijoy Pandey, Cisco  
Takao Indoh, Fujitsu	  
Brendan O’Leary, GitLab  
Aparna Sinha, Google  
Ash Mazhari, Grafana Labs (alternate)  
Bryan Che, Huawei  
Steve Chin, JFrog  
Niraj Tolia, Kasten  
Lachie Evenson, Microsoft  
Rob Esker, NetApp	  
Zain Asgar, New Relic  
Dan Gerrity, Oracle  
Chris Wright, Red Hat/IBM  
Navneet Joneja, VMware  
Liz Rice, TOC Chair  
Paris Pittman, Developer Seat  
Matt Klein, Developer Seat

Also in attendance were:  
Huy Huynh, Apple (alternate)  
Yoshiya Eto, Fujitsu (alternate)   
Edd-Wilder James, Google (alternate)  
Anni Lai, Huawei (alternate)  
Aeva Black, Microsoft (alternate)  
Rob Dolin, Oracle (alternate)  
Todd Moore, Red Hat/IBM (alternate)  
Cornelia Davis, TOC Member  
Davanum Srinivas, TOC Member  
Erin Boyd			TOC Member  
Saad Ali			TOC Member  
Priyanka Sharma, CNCF  
Chris Aniszczyk, CNCF  
Taylor Waggoner, CNCF  
Paige O’Connor, CNCF  
Kristi Tan, CNCF  
Rochelle Jackson, CNCF  
Vanessa Heric, The Linux Foundation  
Angela Brown, The Linux Foundation  
Mike Dolan, The Linux Foundation  
Andy Updegrove, Gesmer Updegrove, LF Legal Counsel

Ms. Sharma called the meeting to order at 4:05 PM PT.  She welcomed the board members to the call and thanked everyone for attending. Ms. Sharma then reviewed the introduction slides, including the purpose of the Governing Board meeting and the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy Notice. Housekeeping items also included the mention of the attendance slide and a review of the meeting agenda.

Ms. Sharma also welcomed the new Governing Board CNCF members, Thomas Di Giacomo, Rancher/SUSE and Takao Indou, Fujitsu, as well as alternates. She also congratulated Mr. Gupta for being elected as the new Governing Board Chairperson.

**Meeting Minutes**  
Ms. Sharma reviewed the governing board-approved process of publishing a public version of the Governing Board meeting minutes. 

The meeting minutes from the Governing Board meeting on July 28, 2021 were approved and adopted.

**Governing Board Election**  
Ms. Sharma noted that the Governing Board election cycle is coming up soon, with one silver board seat and one gold seat up for election, as well as a developer’s seat.  She reviewed the election schedule and process.

For the developer seat, CNCF is requesting to update the election process, which will be discussed during the joint GB-TOC meeting later in this meeting.

**2021 and 2022 Budget**  
The 2021 CNCF budget was presented to the board by Ms. Sharma and the Budget Committee. 

Ms. Sharma reviewed the 2021 revenue reforecast through Q3-21.  This included an increased forecast in membership growth, CNCF events outperforming total targets, and training revenue continuing to climb.

Ms. Sharma reviewed revenue by source as presented on the slide. Ms. Sharma shared that membership, events, and training are 3 areas in which CNCF is projecting an increase in revenue.

Ms. Sharma reviewed the key strategic investments for the 2022 budget. For Events, CNCF is gearing up for a year of in-person events. Developer collaboration & IT investment in security audits, and related efforts to support the ever-growing number of projects. CNCF is planning for an increase in training course material to support the growing program. There will also be an increase in operations support as CNCF continues to mature and as additional projects and initiatives emerge.

Discussion ensued about the projected budget deficit as well as other forecast categories.

Ms. Sharma noted that the board should take this budget forecast as a starting point and that it is likely that there will be a budget reforecast later in 2022\.

Ms. Sharma recommended that the governing board members who have questions or concerns about the budget attend future budget committee meetings.

The 2021 budget was approved by the governing board through a vote. 

**Board Strategy Session Look Back \- Plans For 2022**

Ms. Sharma pulled key topics that were discussed in the October 13, 2021 board strategy session. 

1. Edge Efforts to discourage forking  
2. Making Kubernetes and CNCF contributions sustainable  
3. Attracting End User Members and Supporters- how the board can help  
4. Event \+ DEI strategy 

Ms. Pittman shared highlights from the TOC stating how CNCF and Kubernetes contributions can continue to thrive and remain sustainable, we need more contributors and more maintainers, while hiring for key roles. Ms. Sharma noted that board members can attend the Special Issues Committee meetings if they wish to get involved.

Mr. Che shared the China market challenges and how to bring in new End Users. He stated that Huawei has partnered with CNCF to adopt more End Users to use the cloud.  Mr. Gupta also spoke to attracting new end user members.

**Joint Meeting of the Governing Board and Technical Oversight Committee (TOC)**  
*The CNCF TOC joined the call at 5:15 pm PT for a joint session of the Governing Board and TOC*

**Kubecon \+ CloudNativeCon Updates & Discussion**  
Ms. Heric noted that the first hybrid KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon was a success. On-site safety protocols helped attendees feel safe and comfortable meeting in person. She noted that there were 23,000+ registrations.  The attendee survey responses were fairly positive with a 4.1/5 average rating. The full post-event transparency report will be available in mid-November.

Ms. Heric thanked the sponsors and noted that there were 226 unique sponsors.

Ms. Heric shared the takeaways presented on the slides. She noted that the value and demand of in-person attendance is strong, as virtual conference fatigue has set in for many people.The Covid-19 supply chain and labor shortages created challenges.

CNCF will be rethinking virtual events in 2022, including sponsor benefits, leveraging content, connecting with emerging markets, and surveying attendees on virtual event strategy.  CNCF will continue to brace for challenges, such as labor and supply chain shortages and health/safety protocols.

Ms. Sharma reviewed the 2022 KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon event dates for North America, Europe and China.

**Project Updates**  
Mr. Aniszczyk reviewed the project services team and noted that CNCF will be hiring a few more employees given the growth of the foundation. He noted that there are currently 114 projects and reviewed project level updates and new projects.

Mr. Aniszczyk shared the maintainer survey summary for 2021 H2 and highlighted specific quotes from maintainers. 

**Developer Seat Discussion**  
Ms. Sharma reviewed the current process for the developer seat election and introduced a proposal to update the process. Discussion ensued. The resolution to update the developer seat election process was approved by the governing board through a vote.

**Upcoming Meetings**  
Ms. Sharma noted the upcoming tentative 2022 quarterly Governing Board meetings, including the strategy session at KCCNC NA in October and a board meeting at the LF Member Summit.

Ms. Sinha shared that the Governing Board can be more involved in the committees and suggests moving forward with involvement. 

Ms. Sharma thanked everyone for their participation.

The meeting was adjourned at 6:02 PM PT.
