**Cloud Native Computing Foundation**

Minutes of a meeting of the Governing Board 

March 21, 2024

A meeting of the Governing Board of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (“CNCF”), which is part of The Linux Foundation, was held on March 21, 2024, from 11:10 AM \- 12:39 PM CET time in person in Paris, France and via Zoom LFX.

The following members of the Governing Board, constituting a quorum under the CNCF Charter, were present:

Li (Mark) Yi, Alibaba Cloud  
Alena Prokhachyk, Apple  
Jenn Skeivik, Boeing	  
Vijoy Pandey, Cisco  
Mohammad Zebetian, Charter  
Jeremy Garcia, Datadog  
Justin Dustzadeh, Equinix   
Takao Indoh, Fujitsu  
Anne Bertucio, Google  
Tom Wilkie, Grafana  
Alan Flower, HCL  
Bill Ren Xudong, Huawei  
Arun Gupta, Intel, Chairperson  
Liz Rice, Isovalent  
Stephen Chin, JFrog  
Lachlan Evenson, Microsoft  
Sudha Raghavan, Oracle  
Erin Boyd, Red Hat/IBM  
Vasu Chandrasekhara, SAP  
Clint Kitson, VMware/Broadcom  
Craig Box, Developer Seat  
Christoph Blecker, Developer Seat  
Alolita Sharma, TAB Chair  
Emily Fox, TOC Chair

Also in attendance were:  
Huxing Zhang, Alibaba Cloud (alternate)  
Bryan Che, Huawei (alternate)  
Jatinder Singh Purba, Infosys (alternate)  
Yoav Landman, JFrog (alternate)  
Bridget Khomhout, Microsoft (alternate)  
Brad Topol, Redhat/IBM (alternate)  
Alan Clark, SUSE (alternate)  
Sergiu Petean, TAB  
Chad Beaudin, TAB  
Mike Bowen, TAB  
Amr Abdelhalem, TAB  
Mario Constanti, TAB  
Aparna Subramanian, TAB  
Joseph Sandoval, TAB  
Katie Gamanji, TAB/TOC  
Ricardo Rocha, TAB/TOC  
Cathy Zhang, TOC  
Nikhita Raghunath, TOC  
Duffie Cooley, TOC  
Lin Sun, TOC  
Davanum Srinivas, TOC  
Kevin Wang, TOC  
Priyanka Sharma, CNCF  
Chris Aniszczyk, CNCF  
Joanna Lee, CNCF  
Melissa Smolensky, CNCF  
Taylor Waggoner, CNCF  
Paige O’Connor, CNCF  
Taylor Dolezal, CNCF  
Daniel Krook, CNCF  
Jeffery Sica, CNCF  
Jim Zemlin, The Linux Foundation  
Angela Brown, The Linux Foundation  
Casey Robinson, The Linux Foundation  
Todd Moore, The Linux Foundation  
Nirav Patel, The Linux Foundation  
Stephanie Wigle, The Linux Foundation

Ms. Sharma called the meeting to order at 11:10 AM CET.  She welcomed the board members to the call and thanked everyone for attending. Ms. Sharma then reviewed the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy Notice, confirmed that quorum was present, and reviewed the meeting agenda.

Ms. Sharma welcomed the new Governing Board CNCF members and alternates. 

**Voting Matters**  
Ms. Sharma gave an overview of the five resolutions that will be voted on during the meeting.

**Resolution \#1 \- Minutes**  
Ms. Sharma presented the resolution to adopt the minutes of the December 14, 2023, Governing Board Meeting.

* Mr. Blecker motioned  
* Mr. Gupta seconded  
* Mr. Box abstained  
* All in favor, none opposed 

**RESOLVED:** The minutes of December 14, 2023, meeting of the Governing Board, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, are hereby confirmed, approved, and adopted.

**Budget Update**  
Ms. Sharma reviewed the 2023 actuals.

Ms. Sharma also reviewed the 2024 financials and budget, including a comparison to 2023 actuals. The key takeaways included increased event production costs, removed CI costs and implemented IT Infra savings, and the timing of some training work shifted to 2024\.

Regarding revenue projection for 2024, Ms. Sharma noted that membership renewals were challenging across all tiers, but that CNCF has added a Business Development lead and also increased Sales Support. In terms of Training, there is an anticipated rebound for 2024, following challenges across the LF and industry-wide. She noted that we increased KubeCon EU sponsorship pricing to match KubeCon NA and that sponsorship sales remain strong.

**Responding to community members’ requests regarding political issues and causes**  
This section was skipped due to time constraints and will be discussed at the next board meeting.

**License Exceptions and Amendments to the Allowlist License Policy**   
Ms. Lee presented the four resolutions related to license exceptions and CNCF Allowlist License Policy.

**Resolution \#2 \- License exception for Terraform Provider SDK**  
Ms. Lee presented the following resolution: 

In response to a license exception [request](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/issues/619), the Legal Committee has recommended approval of a license exception to allow CNCF projects to use the following dependencies, which are licensed under MPL-2.0, so long as they are used in unmodified form by linking to the dependency at build time:  
[github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs](http://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs)  
[github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-framework](http://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-framework)  
[github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-framework-timeouts](http://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-framework-timeouts)  
[github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-framework-validators](http://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-framework-validators)  
[github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-go](http://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-go)  
[github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-log](http://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-log)  
[github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-sdk](http://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-sdk)  
[github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing](http://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing)

**RESOLVED:** That the exception described above is hereby approved.

* All in favor, none opposed 


**Resolution \#3 \- License exception for Packer for image-builder**  
Ms. Lee presented the resolution below. Discussion ensued regarding the strategy and process for this license exception. Ms. Lee noted that she would be happy to schedule a joint legal committee and GB optional working session to discuss.

WHEREAS, the Legal Committee has recommended rejection of a requested license exception (https://github.com/cncf/foundation/issues/625) to allow use of a Hashicorp tool called Packer, which was changed from MPL-2.0 to BUSL-1.1, which is not an open source license.

**RESOLVED:** That the license exception request described above is hereby rejected.

* All in favor, none opposed 


**Resolution \#4 \- Allowlist License Policy for storing in designated 3rd party folder**  
Ms. Lee presented the following resolution:

WHEREAS, the Legal Committee has recommended the following amendment to the [CNCF Allowlist License Policy](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/main/allowed-third-party-license-policy.md#cncf-allowlist-license-policy):

“A third-party component under a non-Apache 2.0 license is deemed automatically approved by the Governing Board for inclusion in a CNCF codebase as an exception to the CNCF Intellectual Property Policy, if all of the following apply:

…

2\. It is either (A) stored unmodified in a designated third-party folder, or (B) not stored in the CNCF project repository and instead retrieved at installation or build time from the upstream third party repository or package repository; AND …”

**RESOLVED:** That the amendment to the CNCF Allowlist License Policy described above is hereby approved and adopted.

* All in favor, none opposed 

**Resolution \#5 \- Update Python-2.0 license on the CNCF Allowlist**  
Ms. Lee presented the following resolution:

WHEREAS, the Legal Committee has recommended adding Python-2.0.1 and PSF-2.0 to the Approved Licenses for Allowlist in the CNCF Allowlist License Policy, and retaining Python-2.0 in the Approved Licenses for Allowlist as well.

**RESOLVED:** That the CNCF Allowlist License Policy is hereby amended to add Python-2.0.1 and PSF-2.0 to the Approved Licenses for Allowlist.

* All in favor, none opposed 


**Proposed Changes to License Exception Handling Process**  
Ms. Lee gave an update on the proposed changes to streamline license exception handling processes within the Legal Committee and the Governing Board. Two optional GB working sessions for GB members to discuss, ask questions, and provide feedback  have been scheduled. After GB feedback is incorporated and if there appears to be consensus on updated drafts, the proposed final documents will be submitted to the GB for a vote.

**Joint Meeting of the Governing Board, Technical Oversight Committee (TOC), and End User Technical Advisory Board (TAB)**  
*The CNCF TOC and TAB joined the meeting at 12:07 PM for a joint session of the Governing Board, TOC, and End User TAB*

**Training and Certification Update**  
Mr. Aniszczyk reviewed the eight new initiatives launched so far in 2024, including four new courses and 4 new certifications. He noted that there are four additional certifications expected to launch this year, as well as seven new courses. Mr. Aniszczyk noted these courses take time to create.

Mr. Aniszczyk announced the Kubestronaut program, CNCF’s first T\&C recognition program. A Kubestronaut is a person who has successfully passed all 5 Kubernetes-related CNCF certifications (CKA/CKAD/CKS/KCNA/KCSA). He noted that only about 100 people have passed all 5 of them so far. 

He reviewed the T\&C revenue from LF, including the anticipated revenue for 2024\. He reminded the board that the T\&C program buffers the organization and helps to educate the world.

Mr. Aniszczyk noted the new CNCF endorsed content on Udemy, which was announced during KubeCon Paris.  This is a benefit for KTPs, Ambassadors, and Maintainers.

He also reviewed the Intro to Kubernetes MOOC registrations as well as current KCSP and KTP partners.

Ms. Boyd asked about the process for how new courses and certifications are determined. Mr. Aniszczyk noted that staff looks at the velocity reports as well as other sources to see where the community interest is. He noted that we look to our ambassadors and maintainers to develop the courses and certs.

**Project Updates**  
Mr. Aniszczyk noted that CNCF currently has 184 projects. He reviewed recent project maturity level updates. He also reviewed the growth of CNCF’s various mentorship programs, noting that CNCF would like to reach 200+ mentorships this year. Ms. Rice asked if having so many CNCF projects, particularly in the Sandbox, is helpful or confusing for end users. Ms. Fox noted that the TOC is working on cleaning up the projects that have stagnated in 2024-2025, also mentioning that the TOC will be working with the TAB on this. 

**KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon Updates & CNCF Event Updates**  
Ms. Brown reviewed the current registration numbers for KubeCon Paris, as well as thanked the sponsors of the event. She noted that this is the highest attendance across KubeCon and the highest number of All Access passes.

She reviewed upcoming events, including KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon \+ Open Source Summit \+ AI\_dev in Hong Kong in August and KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon North America 2024 in Salt Lake City in November. She noted that LF is working with the venue in SLC and that KubeCon will not be affected by recent legislation in Utah.

KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon India will be held in Delhi in December. She reviewed the calendar for smaller events in 2024 as well, including KubeDay events.

**End User Ecosystem**  
Mr. Dolezal discussed the “Rise of the AI Engineer” and discussed the different CNCF projects that enable generative AI.

He announced that CERN won the Top End User award in Paris.

He reviewed the Zero to Merge program and announced that the next cohort begins in April 2024\. He also reviewed recent end user case studies. He asked the board to send end users his way for case studies and journey reports.

Mr. Dolezal reviewed end user contributions by company and project in 2024, as well as average contributions by end user membership tier.

**Marketing Updates**  
Ms. Smolensky mentioned that the Industry Analyst Report 2023 is available and noted some highlights. She noted to the board members that this is a great resource for their marketing teams.

**TOC Chair Updates**  
Ms. Fox noted that there is a new vice chair for the TOC, Ms. Nikhita Raghunath. She mentioned new structure in the TOC repo as well as changes to the process of projects moving levels. The TOC is streamlining the due diligence process, which is more issue-oriented. 

Ms. Fox noted that the TOC held an offsite in February which helped to onboard new members. 

She mentioned that the TOC is working with the TAGs to refresh their charters and introduce more consistency and structure. 

Ms. Fox noted that the TOC will be engaging with the End User TAB in 2024\.

The formal board meeting ended at 12:38 PM CET.
