# **Cloud Native Computing Foundation**

Minutes of a meeting of the Governing Board

December 05, 2024

A meeting of the Governing Board of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (“CNCF”), which is part of The Linux Foundation, was held on December 05, 2024, from 9:00 AM \- 11:00 AM PT via Zoom LFX.

The following members of the Governing Board, constituting a quorum under the CNCF Charter, were present:

Alena Prokharchyk, Apple  
Jenn Skeivik, Boeing	  
Liz Rice, Cisco/ Isovalent  
Mohammad Zebetian, Charter  
Jeremy Garcia, Datadog  
Justin Dustzadeh, Equinix   
Takao Indoh, Fujitsu	  
April Kyle Nassi, Google  
Alan Flower, HCL  
Gail Frederick, Heroku  
Arun Gupta, Intel, Chairperson  
Melissa McKay, JFrog  
Sudha Raghavan, Oracle  
Vasu Chandrasekhara, SAP  
Clint Kitson, VMware/Broadcom  
Craig Box, Developer Seat  
Christoph Blecker, Developer Seat  
Emily Fox, TOC Chair  
Alolita Sharma, TAB Chair

Also in attendance were:  
Valerie Techarutchatanon, Boeing (alternate)  
Natali Vlatko, Cisco (alternate)  
William Deniss, Google (alternate)  
Jatinder Singh Purba, Infosys (alternate)  
Bridget Kromhout, Microsoft (alternate)  
Alan Clark, SUSE (alternate)  
Henrik Blixt, TAB  
Amr Abdelhalem, TAB  
Katie Gamanji, TAB/TOC  
Ricardo Rocha, TAB/TOC  
Davanum Srinivas, TOC  
Duffie Cooley, TOC  
Lin Sun, TOC  
Karena Angell, TOC  
Priyanka Sharma, CNCF  
Chris Aniszczyk, CNCF  
Joanna Lee, CNCF  
Taylor Waggoner, CNCF  
Paige O’Connor, CNCF  
Taylor Dolezal, CNCF  
Daniel Krook, CNCF  
Bob Killen, CNCF  
Angela Brown, The Linux Foundation  
Casey Robinson, The Linux Foundation  
Todd Moore, The Linux Foundation

Ms. Sharma called the meeting to order at 9:05 AM PT. She welcomed the board members to the call and thanked everyone for attending. Ms. Sharma then reviewed the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy Notice, confirmed that quorum was present, and reviewed the meeting agenda.

Ms. Sharma welcomed the new Governing Board CNCF members and alternates. 

**Voting Matters**  
Ms. Sharma gave an overview of the two resolutions that will be voted on during the meeting.

**2024 Actuals and 2025 Proposed Financials**  
Ms. Sharma reviewed the 2024 actuals from January through October. The key takeaways included CNCF is operating as expected per the latest revised budget, cost reductions in later events for anticipated savings, and training and certification work carried over from 2023\.  

Ms. Sharma presented the 2025 proposed financials beginning with the 2025 revenue projections. The Membership team has an aggressive target which CNCF plans to execute on by fine-tuning CNCF value proposition for the latest technology trends. Events sponsorship and registration have increased numbers to reflect the 5 KubeCons occurring in 2025\. Ms. Sharma added the interest on project surplus and other new sources of revenue the team is also building. 

Ms. Sharma clarified key takeaways for the 2025 budget include anticipated increased marketing efficiency across teams, adjustments in APAC management, events have added a fifth KubeCon, reduced third party events, and efficiencies in infrastructure management. 

Ms. Robinson provided additional details about the 2025 budget forecast.

Ms. Rice raised the question where project support fits in the various budget categories. Ms. Sharma noted that project support spans most of the budget categories, but the Developer Collaboration and IT section has been especially important for recent investments in additional support for projects. Increased support for projects has been offset by cost savings due to greater efficiencies and optimization. 

**Resolution \#1 \- 2025 Proposed Budget**  
Ms. Sharma presented the resolution to approve the 2025 Budget

* Mr. Blecker motioned  
* Ms. Raghavan seconded  
* All in favor, none opposed 

**RESOLVED:** That the 2025 Budget presented to the board is hereby approved. 

**Legal and Governance**  
Ms. Lee  explained that there are multiple CNCF projects currently developing specifications, and some are interested in pursuing recognition as international standards. CNCF proposes creating a sister entity under the Joint Development Foundation LLC (JDF), an affiliate of the Linux Foundation that hosts standards projects, to support standards development by CNCF projects. Ms. Lee stated the proposal has been shared with the TOC and they are in support. She reviewed the next steps.Governing Board members will be asked to approve updates to the CNCF Charter to enable creation of the JDF sister entity via email vote. Prior to the vote, CNCF will host two optional informational sessions in January for those who would like to learn more or provide feedback.

Ms. Lee reviewed the existing minutes approval process. To expedite and simplify minutes approval via email, she proposed a streamlined process using lazy consensus. Several board members requested that we include a target expectation for how quickly minutes are sent to the board for approval, such as 1-2 weeks. Mr. Blecker requested that the review period be extended to 3-4 weeks. Ms. Rice agrees, but there is a lead time to produce the draft of the minutes which gives time to review and approve. She also requested that CNCF staff are more specific in email follow ups about ongoing votes, to note which board members have not voted. Ms. Lee edited the minutes approval process during the meeting in response to this feedback.

**Resolution \#2 \- Minutes Approval Process**  
Ms. Lee presented the updated minutes approval process that included edits made during the meeting. 

* Mr. Blecker motioned  
* Ms. Frederick and Ms. Rice seconded  
* All in favor, none opposed 

**RESOLVED:** That the Governing Board Minutes Approval Process attached as Exhibit A is hereby approved and adopted.

**Education Updates**  
Mr. Aniszczyk presented on the most recent updates around CNCF Education. He shared that the Kubestronaut program, our first recognition program, launched at KubeCon Paris and continues to be a great success. CNCF is on target for 1,000+ Kubestronauts by the end of the year. 

Mr. Aniszczyk gave training and certification highlights, including 3 new certifications and 3 new courses. He noted that LF Education has transitioned to a subscription model.

Mr. Aniszczyk shared that the certification revenue is growing, currently up 14.64% total YTD. He noted that the Cyber Monday sale is going well.

He noted that registration for the free Kubernetes course continues to grow. He also mentioned a plan to develop a certification for networking.

Mr. Blecker asked about the uptake in non-Kubernetes certifications. Mr. Aniszczyk noted that Backstage looks promising, Argo is doing well, and Prometheus has not had a large pick-up. He mentioned that it is difficult to guess which project certifications will do well. He noted that he expects the platform engineering certification will do well due to current community interest.

**GB Strategy Session Follow Up**  
Ms. Lee noted CNCF plans to share the ideas discussed at the recent Strategy Session KubeCon Salt Lake City with relevant committees and projects. For example, security-related suggestions will be shared with the TAG-Security. Ms. Lee shared a survey link with the Governing Board via email encouraging them to share feedback and additional ideas, and to provide input on the location for the next Strategy Session.  

**Joint Meeting of the Governing Board, Technical Oversight Committee (TOC), and End User Technical Advisory Board (TAB)**  
*The CNCF TOC and TAB joined the meeting at 9:45 AM for a joint session of the Governing Board, TOC, and End User TAB*

**Project Updates**  
Mr. Aniszczyk noted that CNCF currently has 208 projects. CNCF is expected to end the year with \~30 new projects total for the year. CNCF has accepted 27 new sandbox projects this year and 21 new projects in the queue for review in January 2025\. He also reviewed projects that have been archived this year as well as projects that have moved to incubated and graduated status. 

Mr. Aniszczyk stated that CNCF continues to invest in mentorship. He noted that many mentees continue to contribute to the CNCF ecosystem after their mentorship terms conclude. He also said that there is a focus on increasing the conversion from mentees to maintainers.

Ms. Kromhout asked if there is anything we can do to decrease the number of mentees that fail or miss their milestones. Mr. Aniszczyk noted that there is sometimes a mismatch of skills or time for the mentees. He is open to feedback about improving this metric. 

**Event Updates**  
Ms. Brown presented about the most recent and upcoming CNCF Events, sharing the success of KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon North America 2024 with 9,195 attendees. Ms. Brown noted that we have seen a steady increase in registration in the past few years, but we have not yet reached pre-pandemic registration numbers. She noted the success of the project pavilion and the co-located events.

Ms. Brown stated that we are pacing really well on attendance for KubeCon India, happening next week in Delhi. She noted that there is a lot of excitement about holding our first KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon in India this year and expected to sell out. The Events team is taking all the appropriate measures to protect attendees with the current air quality.

Ms. Brown touched on the big increase in sponsorships year over year. Lead generation at these events has increased 50%.

Ms. Brown discussed upcoming 2025 Events, including KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCons in EU, NA, Japan, China and India. She noted the sponsorship deadline for KubeCon London is coming up in January.

She also reviewed SecurityCon co-locating with KubeCon North America in 2025, combining CloudNativeSecurityCon with OpenSSF’s SOSS Fusion conference. 

**NPE Deterrence**  
Ms. Lee shared Cloud Native Heroes Challenge that was launched at KubeCon Salt Lake City has received approximately dozen entries and a winner will be announced this month. 

Mr. Srinivas asked about whether we were coordinating with CNCF  projects on these patent troll deterrence contests. Ms. Lee noted that we don’t want frivolous assertions to impact what technology projects are developing, but we are promoting the contests to project contributors since they can help identify prior art. 

**End User Ecosystem**  
Mr. Dolezal reviewed the relaunch of the End User Radar report, noting that it was a great success. CNCF worked with SlashData to survey 300+ practitioners. 

He noted that the End User Gaps Report captured user experiences across 6 domains with key themes surfacing like security considerations, complexity management needs, and cost optimization opportunities.   

Mr. Dolezal shared the highlights of the newly published End User Reference Architectures from Adobe and Allianz. He noted that there are several reference architectures in the backlog after KubeCon NA.

Mr. Dolezal reviewed end user participation in CNCF, including members, Tech Radar contributors, and reference architectures. He noted the high number of downloads for the Tech Radar and the number of page views for the reference architectures.

**End User TAB Chair Updates**  
Ms. A. Sharma presented the updates around the End User TAB initiatives for 2024\. The TAB has defined a new process for approving and publishing Reference Architectures, with a new Reference Architecture site that launched at KubeCon NA. There is a new workflow designed to streamline End User to Project feedback loops. The TAB and TOC have jointly worked with the LFX Insights team to better surface information on project health. 

Ms. A. Sharma highlighted the TAB-TOC collaboration efforts that occurred this year. She reviewed the areas of focus for 2025, including expanding reference architecture coverage, enhanced health metrics, scaled feedback programs, increased TOC collaboration and community growth initiatives. 

**TOC Chair Updates**  
Ms. Fox reviewed ongoing TOC activities including upcoming Sandbox application review and evaluating Incubating and Graduated projects. 

Ms. Fox reviewed enhancement activities, specifically around TAG leadership. There is a TAG reboot effort underway, including implementing a new process around electing TAG chairs and staggered terms. 

Ms. Fox noted that the TOC has been collaborating with the TAB in terms of adopter interviews and the idea of Graduated+ projects.

Ms. Fox also shared that the new process for sandbox projects and projects moving levels that launched in February has received good feedback. The TOC is working on updating the moving levels criteria, specifically around versioning and providing more clarity in neutrality and governance.  
   
Ms. Fox reviewed project health activities that are underway, noting that the TOC will conduct public health meetings each quarter. They are also exploring the idea of a workshop around moving levels.

Ms. Fox noted that the TOC election will take place in late January 2025\. Ms. Fox mentioned that there is a minimum time commitment per month and that nominees need to understand the expectations of the role. She noted the importance of the TOC role and that attendance, availability and involvement is imperative for all TOC members.

Ms. Sharma reiterated that TOC candidates must be fully committed to performing the TOC role and that board members should confirm with individuals before they nominate them that they can meet the expectations. She encouraged the Governing Board to ask questions around the guidelines while the TOC is on the call today.

Ms. A. Sharma raised the question that there may be confusion around exact guidelines and skills that are expected. Ms. Fox shared a link to the TOC onboarding documentation. 

Ms. Fox stated that every TOC member needs to at least move 1 project, ideally 2, through each year.

**GB Elections**  
Ms. Waggoner reviewed the three upcoming 2025 elections that will be taking place throughout January. Ms. Waggoner reviewed the timelines for Governing Board Silver and Gold election with 4 seats available for nominations, the Governing Board TOC appointed seats have 5 seats up for election and the End User TAB will include silver and at-large open for nominations.   

**Schedule for 2025 and General Announcements**  
Ms. O’Connor communicated the Governing Board schedule plans for 2025\. Ms. O’Connor noted that there will be an in-person board meeting at OSS in Denver at the end of June 2025\. She encouraged the Governing Board to take the survey sent via email to provide their preference on a location for the H1 Strategy Session. 

Ms. Sharma communicated her parental leave plans for 2025, including dates January \- July, 2025\. During Ms. Sharma’s leave, Governing Board members’ primary point of contact at CNCF will be Ms. Lee. 

The board meeting concluded at 10:52 AM PT.
