**Cloud Native Computing Foundation**

Minutes of a meeting of the Governing Board

April 12, 2022

A meeting of the Governing Board of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (“CNCF”), which is part of The Linux Foundation, was held on April 12, 2022 from 9:00-11:00 AM PT time via Zoom Webinar.

The following members of the Governing Board, constituting a quorum under the CNCF Charter, were present:

Li (Mark) Yi, Alibaba  
Jay Pipes, Amazon Web Services  
Arun Gupta, Apple, Governing Board Chair  
Kevin Ryan, Arm  
Dorota Blat, AT\&T  
Vijoy Pandey, Cisco  
Justin Dustzadeh, Equinix   
Takao Indoh, Fujitsu	  
Brendan O’Leary, GitLab  
Aparna Sinha, Google  
Tom Wilkie, Grafana Labs  
Bryan Che, Huawei  
Tom Manville, Kasten  
Lachie Evenson, Microsoft  
Eric Han, NetApp	  
Dan Gerrity, Oracle  
John Morello, Palo Alto Networks  
Chris Wright, Red Hat/IBM  
Thomas Di Giacomo, SUSE  
Navneet Joneja, VMware  
Xin Zhang, Volcano Engine/ ByteDance  
Davanum Srinivas, TOC Chair  
Paris Pittman, Developer Seat  
Richard Hartmann, Developer Seat

Also in attendance were:  
Phillippe Robin, Arm (alternate)  
Teppei Asaba, Fujitsu (alternate)   
Edd Wilder-James, Google (alternate)  
Ash Mazhari, Grafana (alternate)  
Anni Lai, Huawei (alternate)  
Aeva Black, Microsoft (alternate)  
Todd Moore, Red Hat/IBM (alternate)  
Vasu Chandrasekhara, SAP (alternate)  
Erin Boyd, TOC Member  
Emily Fox, TOC Member  
Justin Cormack, TOC Member  
Katie Gamanji, TOC Member  
Lei Zhang, TOC Member  
Matt Farina, TOC Member  
Ricardo Rocha, TOC Member  
Priyanka Sharma, CNCF  
Chris Aniszczyk, CNCF  
Taylor Waggoner, CNCF  
Paige O’Connor, CNCF  
Taylor Dolezal, CNCF  
Kristi Tan, CNCF  
Amye Scavarda Perrin, CNCF  
Jeffrey Sica, CNCF  
Jim Zemlin, The Linux Foundation  
Vanessa Heric, The Linux Foundation  
Angela Brown, The Linux Foundation  
Mike Dolan, The Linux Foundation  
Casey Robinson, The Linux Foundation  
Joanna Lee, Gesmer Updegrove, LF Legal Counsel

Ms. Sharma called the meeting to order at 9:05 AM PT.  She welcomed the board members to the call and thanked everyone for attending. Ms. Sharma then reviewed the introduction slides, including the purpose of the Governing Board meeting and the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy Notice. Housekeeping items also included the mention of the attendance slide and a review of the meeting agenda.

Ms. Sharma also welcomed the new Governing Board CNCF members, Mr. Eric Han, NetApp, Mr. Jay Pipes, Amazon Web Services, and Mr. Tom Manville, Kasten, as well as alternates. She also congratulated Mr. Davanum Srinivas for being elected as the new TOC Chair.

**Meeting Minutes**  
Ms. Sharma reviewed the governing board-approved process of publishing a public version of the Governing Board meeting minutes.

The meeting minutes from the Governing Board meeting on November 1, 2021 was approved and adopted.

**CNCF Charter Resolution**  
Ms. Sharma noted the Gold membership tier was omitted from the first paragraph of the Charter’s membership section. End User is also incorrectly hyphenated.

The resolution for the CNCF Charter amendment to add the Gold membership tier to the Membership section was approved.

**Welcome to CNCF Team**  
Ms. Sharma welcomed the new CNCF staff to the team, Mr. Taylor Dolezal, Head of Ecosystem and Mr. Jeffrey Sica, Principal Developer Experience Engineer.

**Licensing Exceptions**  
Ms. Sharma shared Krustlet and Dapr licensing exception requests as presented on the slides. Discussion ensued regarding making the approval process faster for these types of license exceptions.

The resolution for webpki-roots, go-version, raft, raft-boltdb, Eclipse Panho MQTT Go client, when used in unmodified form, was approved as an exception to the CNCF Intellectual Property Policy.

Ms. Sharma presented a proposal to enable the Legal Committee to pass licensing exceptions. Discussion ensued. Ms. Lee offered as an alternative option that the Legal Committee could make recommendations to the Board on licensing exceptions, rather than have final approval authority. A director suggested that the Legal Committee could have authority to approve some types of licensing exceptions, but there might be some type of licensing exceptions that should  be reviewed by the Board. For now, the Legal Committee would proceed with its first meeting and the Resolution would be revisited later.

**Proposal: Enable Legal Committee to pass licensing exceptions**  
This topic was put on hold. The CNCF Governing Board Legal Committee will have its first meeting and then this topic will be revisited in the future.

**2022 Financials**  
Ms. Sharma shared that she and CNCF/LF staff recently met with the CNCF Budget Committee.

Ms. Sharma reviewed the 2021 actuals and highlights including that it was a surplus year for CNCF, positive membership growth, events revenue was slightly down but net positive, and training continues to climb. She also reviewed the revenue by source.

Ms. Sharma reviewed the revised 2022 budget forecast. CNCF is seeking approval to effectively invest in 2022 and 2023 to utilize revenue for the good of the community. Ms. Sharma noted all investments are plans and CNCF will do the best to maximize every dollar spent and come in under the proposed budget. Ms. Sharma also highlighted CNCF needs people and programming to truly invest in making our community a better place for contributors, maintainers, and learners. 

The resolution for the revised 2022 Budget was approved.

**Confidential Session**  
Ms. Sharma called a confidential session.

**Joint Meeting of the Governing Board and Technical Oversight Committee (TOC)**  
*The CNCF TOC joined the call at 10:29 AM PT for a joint session of the Governing Board and TOC*

**Marketing Updates**  
Ms. Sharma shared the marketing updates including CNCF Annual Survey 2021 key takeaways as presented on the slides. Q1 \+ Q2 Platinum \+ Gold strategy meetings including New Relic, Google and American Express. 

Ms. Sharma gave a sneak preview of the CNCF Brand update and website accessibility.  

Ms. Sharma invited the Governing Board to the inaugural CTO Summit dinner that will be held at KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon EU in Valencia on May 18, 2022\.   
   
**Kubecon \+ CloudNativeCon Updates & CNCF Event Updates**  
Ms. Heric presented updates for KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon and on-site safety protocols. She noted that registration is tracking towards 5,000 in-person and 10,000 virtual attendees. Dan Kohn Scholarships offered \- 65 diversity in-person and 10 need-based, 197 virtual diversity and 54 need-based (as of 3/31, application closed April 24). Ms. Heric also noted that co-located events remain popular and that 21 will be held at KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon: 12 CNCF-hosted (hybrid) and 9 sponsor-hosted co-located events. Ms. Sharma noted that we are already gauging interest for co-located events for KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon NA.

Ms. Heric thanked the sponsors of the event. She noted we have a record number of EU sponsors.

Ms. Heric shared updates for KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon NA in Detroit, MI from October 24 \- 26, 2022 and standalone project events (OTel on June 20, 2022 and ArgoCon from September 19 \- 21, 2022).

Ms. Heric reviewed the 2022 Cloud Native \+ OSS China event goals.

**Project Updates**  
Mr. Aniszczyk welcomed the new TOC members. He noted that there are currently 126 projects and reviewed project level updates and new projects. 

Mr. Aniszczyk shared a request from etcd around inactive maintainers for the project is causing impact. Etcd is a critical dependency of Kubernetes. The call to action from the TOC is that corporate maintainers are needed for etcd. Mr. Gupta noted that we need to be more proactive about this topic rather than reactive.  

**Upcoming Meetings**  
Ms. Sharma noted the upcoming 2022 quarterly Governing Board meetings, including the strategy session at KCCNC EU on May 19, 2022 and a board meeting in August 2022\. Ms. Sharma underscored the importance of the strategy sessions and the need to use them more effectively.

Ms. Sharma thanked everyone for their participation and opened up the call for discussion.

Ms. Pittman noted that we need to create a community of practice in cloud native. Ms. Pittman noted that we need to address the long-term strategy for sustainability. Mr. Srinivas noted that there are many areas that need help. Ms. Sharma mentioned that the right set of people need to be involved to solve this problem and that participation from the Special Issues Committee will help.

The meeting was adjourned at 10:57 AM PT.
