**Cloud Native Computing Foundation**

Minutes of a meeting of the Governing Board

December 8, 2022

A meeting of the Governing Board of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (“CNCF”), which is part of The Linux Foundation, was held on December 8, 2022, from 4:00-6:00 PM PT time via Zoom Webinar.

The following members of the Governing Board, constituting a quorum under the CNCF Charter, were present:

Li (Mark) Yi, Alibaba  
Barry Cooks, Amazon Web Services  
Kevin Ryan, Arm  
Ricardo Torres, Boeing  
Vijoy Pandey, Cisco  
Takao Indoh, Fujitsu	  
Anne Bertucio, Google  
Bill Ren Xudong, Huawei  
Arun Gupta, Intel, Chairperson  
Chris Wright, IBM/ Red Hat  
Stephen Chin, JFrog  
Tom Manville, Kasten  
Sebastian Scheele, Kubermatic  
Eric Han, NetApp  
Dan Gerrity, Oracle  
Jaice Singer DuMars, VMware  
Davanum Srinivas, TOC Chair  
Paris Pittman, Developer Seat  
Richard Hartmann, Developer Seat

Also in attendance were:  
Cheryl Hung, Arm (alternate)  
Ed Warnicke, Cisco (alternate)  
Ashley Willis, Google (alternate)  
Bryan Che, Huawei (alternate)  
Aeva Black, Microsoft (alternate)  
Todd Moore, Red Hat/IBM (alternate)  
Alan Clark, SUSE (alternate)  
Cathy Zhang, TOC  
Priyanka Sharma, CNCF  
Chris Aniszczyk, CNCF  
Joanna Lee, CNCF  
Thabang Mashologu, CNCF  
Paige O’Connor, CNCF  
Taylor Dolezal, CNCF  
Jim Zemlin, The Linux Foundation  
Angela Brown, The Linux Foundation  
Vanessa Heric, The Linux Foundation  
Casey Robinson, The Linux Foundation

Ms. Sharma called the meeting to order at 4:05 PM PT.  She welcomed the board members to the call and thanked everyone for attending. Ms. Sharma then reviewed the introduction slides, including the purpose of the Governing Board meeting and the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy Notice. Housekeeping items also included the mention of the attendance slide and a review of the meeting agenda.

Ms. Sharma also welcomed the new Governing Board CNCF members and alternates. 

**Voting Matters**  
Ms. Sharma noted the importance of voting on Governing Board resolutions and highlighted the two resolutions that will be voted on during this meeting.

**Meeting Minutes**  
Ms. Sharma reviewed the governing board-approved process of publishing a public version of the Governing Board meeting minutes.

**Resolution \#1 \- Minutes**  
Ms. Sharma presented the resolution to adopt the minutes of the August 25, 2022, Governing Board Meeting.

* All in favor, none opposed 

**RESOLVED:** The minutes of August 25, 2022 meeting of the Governing Board are hereby confirmed, approved, and adopted.

**CNCF Governing Board Election 2022**  
Ms. Sharma announced the Governing Board election was kicked off in November. She thanked the current Governing Board Silver, Gold, and Developer Seat representatives for their service. Ms. Sharma reviewed the Silver/Gold election process overview and timeline, and on January 1, 2023, the newly elected will begin their term.

**Technical Oversight Committee Election 2023**  
Ms. Sharma shared that the TOC election will kick off in January 2023\. Ms. Sharma reintroduced the TOC election process to the Governing Board, including composition, criteria for nominees, nominations, and the election. She shared the charter for full details. Ms. Sharma reviewed the 2023 TOC election timeline. 

**2022 Financials**  
Ms. Sharma reviewed a summary of the 2022 financials, noting that the business is performing as forecasted, according to the budgeted plan approved by the Board in August 2022\. Ms. Sharma stated the complete Actuals for 2022 will be available in March 2023\.

Ms. Sharma reviewed a summary of the 2023 budget, noting revenue growth projections are lower for 2023 compared to 2022, a focus on reducing big-ticket costs, and making strategic investments needed for the ecosystem. 

The membership revenue forecast is analyzed by upcoming 2023 renewals, sales pipeline, and expected churn, including the current and prospective members facing tighter internal budgets, particularly in tech. 

The events revenue forecast is based on prioritizing making our events accessible, including events prices for sponsorships not being adjusted for inflation. Ms. Sharma stated CNCF could adjust event expenses based on demand on an ongoing basis. Ms. Brown shines a light on the realities faced with the economy and preparing to be conservative.

The training revenue forecast rationale is based on increasing training and certification trends. Ms. Sharma noted that CNCF now has a dedicated GTM leader focusing on it, Thabang Mashologu. 

Ms. Sharma reviewed the 2023 investments. They shared key strategic investments, including CNCF investment in expanding geographic reach of events with 3 KubeDays in 2023, multi-cloud competency for CNCF projects, strategic communications, and community management support. 

Ms. Sharma and Ms. Brown spoke about the 2023 expense forecast breakdowns. Noting key efficiency measures in prioritizing and reducing the scope for critical contracts, reducing event costs across categories and right-sizing the Training and Certification spend in line with the 2022 experience.. The reserve plans to fulfill the ecosystem's needs, some costs will need to be incurred in a down year, and strategic investments need to be made for the betterment of the community. 

Ms. Sharma opened it up to questions.

Mr. Ren Xudong shared his excitement to join today's meeting and hopes to have an event in China next year with the country's policies changing. 

Ms. Sharma stated this current budget does not include a KubeCon China event. Should we have the opportunity to host in person in China, we will include that in the next Governing Board meeting’s discussion on budget. 

Ms. Bertucio asked about the reserve replenishment, and Ms. Sharma responded by saying that the CNCF hopes to restore the budget reserves in 2024\. Ms. Bertucio asked a follow-up question, If we don’t replenish, what are the alternatives? 

Ms. Robinson shared that this is a conservative budget with high expectations to beat these numbers, given everything going on in 2023\. We do not have an urgency to replace the replenishment.  

Mr. Chin stated he tends to be optimistic about the budget but asks if it is possible to have a check-in if things worsen. 

Ms. Sharma shared that March 30, 2023, is the next Governing Board meeting, and we will have 2022 Actuals to discuss and re-evaluate 2023 as needed. All further board meetings in the year will serve as checkpoints as well in partnership with the Budget Committee.

**Resolution \#2 \- 2023 Budget**  
Ms. Sharma presented the resolution to approve the 2023 Budget.

* All in favor, none opposed 

**RESOLVED:** The 2023 Budget presented to the board for approval is hereby confirmed, approved, and adopted. 

**Joint Meeting of the Governing Board and Technical Oversight Committee (TOC)**  
*The CNCF TOC joined the call at 4:45 PM PT for a joint session of the Governing Board and TOC*

**Highlights 2022**  
Ms. Sharma summarized 2022 highlights, including 147 total projects added this year with 4 graduated, 2 documentaries produced, 840+ members, 2 successful KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon events, 16 KCDs across 14 countries, huge increases across MOOC, CKA, CKAD, and CKS courses, 4 CNF vendor certified, and the DEI offering more than 5,000 diversity and need-based scholarships. Ms. Sharma shared other notable improvements and the expansion of the CNCF team this year, with 5 new roles hired. 

**Strategy Session Follow Up**  
Ms. Lee noted 2 topics were discussed at the Governing Board Strategy Session in Detroit and shared updates around k8s infra. Ms. Lee stated CNCF is engaging a multi-cloud specialist to assist with the migration to multi-cloud and evaluate further cost-savings measures and tooling. She shared that the next steps include the multi-cloud specialist developing a comprehensive strategy for making k8s infrastructure multi-cloud, utilizing work already done by SIG-k8s-Infra, and a detailed project plan and timeline, after which individual tasks from the project plan will be assigned. All work will be tracked in GitHub, and regular updates will be provided to the cloud provider donors and the Governing Board. 

Ms. Lee updated the Governing Board on 2 new roles opening to support infrastructure for CNCF projects. Ms. Lee asked the Governing Board to share recommendations and referrals.  

Ms. Sharma opened it up to questions.

Mr. Srinivas thanked Priyanka and CNCF staff for their work and efforts to help the community and for listening to the requests and planning.

Ms. Brown addressed updates from the second topic discussed at the Governing Board Strategy Session in Detroit. Ms. Brown reported CNCF event health and safety updates based on survey findings with 567 responses. The survey findings will be communicated publicly the week of December 12th. All protocols are subject to change based on local laws and recommendations of local health authorities.  

Ms. Sharma requested input from the Governing Board for the 2023 strategic planning and reviewed an overview of the current process. Ms. Sharma asked the Governing Board to complete a brief SWOT survey by December 20th, which was also communicated via email.

**Project Updates**  
Mr. Aniszczyk acknowledged the project highlights, noting 147 projects, and reviewed project-level updates and new projects. He reviewed recent mentorship stats. He noted a new mentoring working group as part of TAG Contributor Strategy. Mr. Aniszczyk shared the vast investments and improvement around security audits in 2022, with 132 security fixes. The support continues to grow on artifacthub.io, and CNCF is always seeking more maintainers.

**Maintainers Survey 2022**  
Mr. Aniszczyk summarized the Maintainers Survey results, emphasizing that CNCF projects are asking for more support regarding community events, mentorship, training, automation, and infrastructure. He remarked that satisfaction with CNCF is generally high, but we will hire more staff to help increase response time, etc.  
   
**Kubecon \+ CloudNativeCon Updates & CNCF Event Updates**  
Ms. Brown presented the statistics from KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon NA. 

Ms. Brown thanked the sponsor and sales team for bringing in a record number of NA sponsors. She also thanked all of the sponsors for their participation. 

Ms. Brown shared the 2023 Event updates and solutions with new event offerings, modifications to co-located event programs at KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon, and modifications to the event schedule. Ms. Brown announced the co-located event changes, including two registration options, speakers receiving complimentary All Access tickets, and more transparency in the process. 

Mr. Wright asked what the delta between the “All Access KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon” ticket would be from the original “KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon” ticket. 

Mr. Hartman shared his concern about the technical content being impacted by a reduction in the number of days.

Ms. Brown stated that as it becomes more important, the content discussion will need to be shared with the co-chairs. Ms. Sharma added that a conversation happening around KubeCon \+ CloudNativecon content is on December 16th, and all are encouraged to join the call. 

Ms. Brown presented KubeCon \+ CloudNativecon EU 2023 in Amsterdam, April 19-21. KubeCon \+ CloudNativecon NA in Chicago, November 7-9, reflects the new Tuesday \- Thursday schedule. We have 3 new Project events, CNCF-hosted co-located events happening next year and expanding KubeDay Events in Tel Aviv and Bengaluru. Ms. Brown communicated that CNCF is trying new things in 2023 and will iterate as needed.

**Marketing Updates**  
Mr. Mashologu shared recent statistics from CNCF marketing efforts and initiatives.

**Schedule for 2023**  
Ms. Sharma communicated the 2023 Governing Board schedule. Reminding the Governing Board CNCF hosts 3 quarterly Governing Board meetings a year via teleconference and 2 strategy sessions in-person at KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon NA & EU. The next meeting will be held virtually on March 30, 2023\. 

Mr. Gerrity thanked Sharma and Robinson for the work done for the 2023 budget and Budget Committee.  
   
Ms. Sharma thanked everyone for their participation.

The meeting was adjourned at 5:52 PM PT.
