**Cloud Native Computing Foundation**

Minutes of a meeting of the Governing Board 

March 30, 2023

A meeting of the Governing Board of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (“CNCF”), which is part of The Linux Foundation, was held on March 30, 2023, from 9:00-11:00 AM PT time via Zoom Webinar.

The following members of the Governing Board, constituting a quorum under the CNCF Charter, were present:

Barry Cooks, Amazon Web Services  
Alena Prokhachyk, Apple  
Ricardo Torres, Boeing  
Mohammad Zebetian, Charter Communications  
Jeremy Garcia, Datadog  
Justin Dustzadeh, Equinix	  
Anne Bertucio, Google  
Tom Wilkie, Grafana Labs  
Bill Ren Xudong, Huawei  
Arun Gupta, Intel, Chair 
Liz Rice, Isovalent  
Chris Wright, IBM/ Red Hat  
Stephen Chin, JFrog  
Tom Manville, Kasten  
Lachlan Evenson, Microsoft  
Eric Han, NetApp  
Vasu Chandrasekhara, SAP  
Thomas Di Giacomo, SUSE  
Christoph Blecker, Developer Seat  
Richard Hartmann, Developer Seat

Also in attendance were:  
Alolita Sharma, Apple (alternate)  
Ed Warnicke, Cisco (alternate)  
Ashley Willis, Google (alternate)  
Bryan Che, Huawei (alternate)  
Lori Lorusso, JFrog (alternate)  
Bridget Khomhout, Microsoft (alternate)  
Brad Topol, RedHat (alternate)  
Krasmir Semerdzhiev, SAP (alternate)  
Alan Clark, SUSE (alternate)  
Nikhita Raghunath, TOC  
Katie Gamanji, TOC  
Duffie Cooley, TOC  
Priyanka Sharma, CNCF  
Chris Aniszczyk, CNCF  
Joanna Lee, CNCF  
Melissa Smolensky, CNCF  
Jeffery Sica, CNCF  
Taylor Waggoner, CNCF  
Paige O’Connor, CNCF  
Taylor Dolezal, CNCF  
Jim Zemlin, The Linux Foundation  
Mike Dolan, The Linux Foundation  
Todd Moore, The Linux Foundation  
Angela Brown, The Linux Foundation  
Vanessa Heric, The Linux Foundation  
Casey Robinson, The Linux Foundation

Ms. Sharma called the meeting to order at 9:05 AM PT.  She welcomed the board members to the call and thanked everyone for attending. Ms. Sharma then reviewed the introduction slides, including the purpose of the Governing Board meeting and the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy Notice. Housekeeping items also included the mention of the attendance slide and a review of the meeting agenda.

Ms. Sharma also welcomed the new Governing Board CNCF members, alternates and TOC Chair. 

**Voting Matters**  
Ms. Sharma gave an overview of the three resolutions that will be voted on during this meeting.

**Meeting Minutes**  
Ms. Sharma reviewed the governing board-approved process of publishing a public version of the Governing Board meeting minutes.

**Resolution \#1 \- Minutes**  
Ms. Sharma presented the resolution to adopt the minutes of the December 8, 2022, Governing Board Meeting.

* All in favor, none opposed 

**RESOLVED:** The minutes of December 8, 2022 meeting of the Governing Board are hereby confirmed, approved, and adopted.

**2022 Financials**  
Ms. Sharma reviewed a summary of the 2022 financials, noting that CNCF navigated 2022 economic uncertainty better than expected and plans to use savings to make investments for the benefit of the ecosystem in 2023 while still retaining a cautious financial posture for the year. 

Ms. Sharma reviewed the complete Actuals for 2022, stating revenue outpaced expectations in Q4 while expenses were contained in anticipation of a revenue squeeze, leading to a larger \-than-expected surplus on the year. 

Ms. Sharma reviewed the 2023 Budget updates, stating at this time there are no material changes to the 2023 revenue forecast. CNCF would like to make additional strategic investments to support our ecosystem in the following major categories: community support, operations overhaul, projects support, and strategic programs. 

Ms. Sharma opened it up to questions.

Ms. Sharma introduced Mr. Moore to speak about the data improvement efforts. He noted that this effort is mostly funded by The Linux Foundation.

Mr. Evenson noted that the Budget Committee is pleased with the current state of the budget and proposed updates.

**Resolution \#2 \- 2023 Budget**  
Ms. Sharma presented the resolution to approve the 2023 Budget.

* All in favor, none opposed 

**RESOLVED:** The 2023 Budget presented to the board for approval is hereby confirmed, approved, and adopted. 

**Legal Committee Update**  
Ms. Lee shared that the Legal Committee prepared a Legal Committee Charter and has voted to recommend it to the Governing Board for approval. Ms. Lee reviewed the charter, noting the structure of the Legal Committee and various procedures included.

**Resolution \#3 \- Legal Committee Charter**  
Ms. Lee presented the resolution to approve the Legal Committee Charter.

* All in favor, none opposed 

**RESOLVED:** The Legal Committee Charter is hereby confirmed, approved, and adopted.

**Joint Meeting of the Governing Board and Technical Oversight Committee (TOC)**  
*The CNCF TOC joined the call at 9:30 AM PT for a joint session of the Governing Board and TOC*

**Event Health & Safety Protocol Update**  
Ms. Brown presented the recent communication shared the week of March 27, 2023 regarding the move to an endemic phase of Covid-19 in the Netherlands and the requirements asked of CNCF. Ms. Brown shared a breakdown of how the communication was handled and the order of whom was notified including, Governing Board members, TOC, program chairs, Ambassadors, and marketing committee. 

Ms. Brown shared the protocols that will be in place at KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon Amsterdam. She noted that it is increasingly difficult to keep Covid-19 requirements in place at this time, and as such, LF plans to remove all Covid vaccination and testing requirements from LF Events moving forward.

Mr. Blecker raised the question of whether hand sanitizer stations and other permitted safety protocols around the venue would continue for KubeCon Chicago and other future events.

Ms. Brown stated that, for future events, there were no plans to reduce health & safety measures permitted by local laws such as hand sanitizer stations. 

**Kubecon \+ CloudNativeCon Updates & CNCF Event Updates**  
Ms. Brown presented the statistics from the CloudNativeSecurityCon 2023 inaugural event. She noted that CNCF is looking at May 2024 for the next CNSC.

Ms. Brown thanked the sponsor and sales team for bringing in a record number of EU sponsors at 216\. She also thanked all of the sponsors for their participation. Ms. Brown presented KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon EU 2023 is sold out and people are on a waitlist. Ms. Brown shared that the All-Access pass sold out very quickly. Ms. Brown presented EU 2023 co-located events. 

She reviewed details for KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon North America in Chicago.

Ms. Brown shared the excitement of bringing back KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon \+ OS Summit China in September 2023\. She and Ms. Sharma thanked Bill Ren of Huawei for being a big part of helping make this event happen.  

Ms. Brown reviewed the 3 upcoming KubeDay events and other CNCF project events in 2023\. She noted that KCDs are community-run events and that KubeDays are CNCF-run events.  Ms. Sharma thanked the Infosys team for their help with KubeDay India. Mr. Aniszczyk asked the board to provide feedback for these smaller events, as we are always looking to improve our events.

Ms. Brown noted that 5 Kubernetes Community Days have happened so far in 2023, with 23 currently in progress.

**Code of Conduct Working Group Updates**  
Ms. Lee asked the Governing Board for their input to reach MVP by KubeCon EU. Ms. Lee shared that the CNCF Code of Conduct Working Group has made great progress over the last 4 months developing incident resolution procedures, an updated code of conduct, a jurisdiction policy and a Code of Conduct Committee charter. Ms. Lee reviewed the current proposal for the CoC Committee Charter, noting that it is still open for public comment.

The CoC Working Group would like the Governing Board to consider whether the CoC Committee Charter should contemplate the GB appointing a GB liaison, with the goal being to enable communication and coordination between the GB and CoC Committee.

Ms. Lee opened it up to questions and comments**.** 

Mr. Evenson, Mr. Han, and others agreed a Liaison is a good plan moving forward. Ms. Lee will follow up with the Governing Board via email to ask for volunteers.

Ms. Lee reviewed next steps for the CoC Working Group. She thanked the current members of the Code of Conduct Working Group and their efforts. 

**TOC Chair Update**  
Ms. Sharma introduced Ms. Fox as the new TOC Chair and member of the Governing Board. Ms. Fox shared updates via a video recording, introducing herself to the Governing Board as TOC Chair. 

Ms. Fox addressed the Notary project challenges and path forward. Notary has been under discussion around subproject delineation and overall project goals. She presented the TOC process efforts, including, work off tech debt, increase transparency and reasoning in technical decisions, streamline levels without compromising technical diligence, empower projects to be successful at all stages and actualize consistency in project engagement.    

Ms. Sharma shared the Governing Board Strategy Session is coming up April 19th and encouraged everyone to share topic ideas to Ms. Lee for discussion. 

**Project Updates**  
Mr. Aniszczyk acknowledged the project highlights, noting 159 projects, and reviewed project-level updates and new projects, including 16 sandbox projects in the backlog. Mr. Aniszczyk shared the growing community with mentorships, noting a goal of 150 mentorship projects this year. He noted that this comes from a mix of LFX mentorships, Google Summer of Code and Google Season of Docs.

Mr. Aniszczyk presented recent security audits and fuzzing improvements, noting 50 critical high or medium findings, 196 security improvements and 73 tools built or improved. 

Ms. Lee reviewed the 3 phases of the Kubernetes Infrastructure updates as well as current status. Mr. Sica reviewed the costs associated with this process and the work that has been performed so far. Mr. Sica noted that Phase 1 (artifact/container distribution being allocated between GCP & AWS) should be complete by May 1\. The goal for Phase 2 (CI/Prow compute being allocated between GCP & AWS) completion is the end of August.

Ms. Sharma encouraged a separate meeting to be added to everyone's calendars for a deeper dive into updates around Kubernetes Infrastructure iterations as it will keep evolving throughout the year. 

Ms. Bertucio asked if there was anything the GB could do to help with this process.  Mr. Sica noted that there is not currently anything needed. Mr. Sica thanked the community members who have been putting in long hours to make this work happen, especially Ben Elder.

Ms. Lee thanked Mr. Sica for all of his work on this project, including getting alignment within the community.

**End User Ecosystem**  
Mr. Dolezal reviewed the new members of the CNCF end user ecosystem as well as the End User Groups, including Public Sector, Developer Experience, and Transportation.

He noted that the CTO Summit Report from KubeCon Detroit was recently published. The next CTO Summit will be happening at KubeCon Amsterdam in April.  Ms. Sharma confirmed that the Governing Board is invited to dinner with the CTO Summit attendees at KubeCon.

Mr. Dolezal quickly reviewed recent end user case studies.

He reviewed the CNCF projects that end user companies have contributed to in Q1-2023, as well as recent news articles featuring end users.

**Schedule for 2023**  
Ms. O’Connor communicated the 2023 Governing Board schedule, reminding the Governing Board that CNCF hosts 3 quarterly Governing Board meetings a year via teleconference and 2 strategy sessions in-person at KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon NA & EU. The next strategy session will be April 19th in Amsterdam. 

Ms. Sharma shared she will be taking maternity leave in Summer 2023\. She welcomed Melissa Smolensky, Vice President of Special Programs, and Todd Moore, The Linux Foundation’s Senior Vice President of Operations to the Foundation.   
   
Ms. Sharma thanked everyone for their participation.

The meeting was adjourned at 10:50 AM PT.
