**Cloud Native Computing Foundation**

Minutes of a meeting of the Governing Board

September 14, 2023

A meeting of the Governing Board of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (“CNCF”), which is part of The Linux Foundation, was held on September 14, 2023, from 9:00-11:00 AM PT time via Zoom Webinar.

The following members of the Governing Board, constituting a quorum under the CNCF Charter, were present:

Alena Prokhachyk, Apple  
Vijoy Pandey, Cisco  
Jeremy Garcia, Datadog	  
Takao Indoh, Fujitsu  
Anne Bertucio, Google  
Alan Flower, HCL  
Bill Ren Xudong, Huawei  
Naresh Duddu, Infosys  
Arun Gupta, Intel, Chair  
Liz Rice, Isovalent  
Chris Wright, IBM/Red Hat  
Stephen Chin, JFrog  
Tom Manville, Kasten  
Lachlan Evenson, Microsoft  
Eric Han, NetApp  
Prabhu Nakkeeran, New Relic  
Sudha Raghavan, Oracle  
Jaice Singer DuMars, VMware  
Christoph Blecker, Developer Seat  
Richard Hartmann, Developer Seat

Also in attendance were:  
Vipul Sabhaya, Amazon Web Services (alternate)  
Alolita Sharma, Apple (alternate)  
Stephen Augustus, Cisco (alternate)  
Bryan Che, Huawei (alternate)  
Jatinder Singh Purba, Infosys (alternate)  
Lori Lorusso, JFrog (alternate)  
Bridget Khomhout, Microsoft (alternate)  
Masuo Gates, Oracle (alternate)  
Krasmir Semerdzhiev, SAP (alternate)  
Alan Clark, SUSE (alternate)  
Nikhita Raghunath, TOC  
Katie Gamanji, TOC  
Duffie Cooley, TOC  
Matt Farina, TOC  
Ricardo Rocha, TOC  
Erin Boyd, TOC  
Chris Aniszczyk, CNCF  
Joanna Lee, CNCF  
Melissa Smolensky, CNCF  
Jeffery Sica, CNCF  
Taylor Waggoner, CNCF  
Paige O’Connor, CNCF  
Taylor Dolezal, CNCF  
Daniel Krook, CNCF  
Todd Moore, The Linux Foundation  
Angela Brown, The Linux Foundation  
Casey Robinson, The Linux Foundation

Ms. Lee called the meeting to order at 9:05 AM PT.  She welcomed the board members to the call and thanked everyone for attending. Ms. Lee then reviewed the introduction slides, including the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy Notice, confirmed that quorum was present, and presence of quorum for voting purposes. Housekeeping items also included the mention of the attendance slide and a review of the meeting agenda.

Ms. Lee congratulated Ms. Sharma on welcoming her new child. She also welcomed the new Governing Board CNCF members and alternates. 

**Voting Matters**  
Ms. Lee gave an overview of the two resolutions that will be voted on during the meeting.

**Resolution \#1 \- Minutes**  
Ms. Lee presented the resolution to adopt the minutes of the March 30, 2023, Governing Board Meeting.

* Mr. Chin moved to approve the minutes  
* Mr. Manville seconded the motion  
* All in favor, none opposed 

**RESOLVED:** The minutes of March 30, 2023, meeting of the Governing Board, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, are hereby confirmed, approved, and adopted.

**2023 Budget Update**  
Mr. Moore reviewed a summary of the 2023 planned investments and where CNCF is progressing across a variety of programs and categories including scholarships, strategic programs, end user programs, operations, and project support. 

Mr. Moore reviewed the 2023 mid-year reforecast, and discussion ensued. Mr. Aniszczyk noted that we will update the GB about the budget for 2024 in the next couple of months.

Mr. Moore reviewed the 2023 Financials: Jan \- Jul 2023 Actuals, noting a few takeaways including that the end user programs are ramping up, there have been increased security audits, and we front-loaded mentorships earlier in the year. He also mentioned that many contracts for certification and course development were issued in July for 2H.  

Ms. Rice asked for a high-level overview of how the foundation is doing financially relative to prior fiscal years. Mr. Moore noted that things are rosy. Our events are well-attended, and revenue is up across the board. He noted that people are back and participating in the foundation and events. We are on track for KubeCon Chicago. He noted that people are registering a bit later than pre-pandemic. Overall, we’ve returned to pre-pandemic levels. He mentioned that our Events team has put on very good events and have been managing expenses well. Ms. Robinson noted that CNCF is very well set-up from a budget perspective and have come through the pandemic quite well. She noted that the Events team were able to work miracles throughout the pandemic, including negotiating fees and managing virtual events. The project is positioned strongly and we continue to make investments and give back to the community (via scholarships, etc). Ms. Brown noted that we are still seeing constrained budgets from companies and increased scholarship requests. Ms. Brown noted that the increased registration numbers at KubeCon Amsterdam were due to not having an event there since 2019 plus the strained economic conditions had not hit there quite yet. She mentioned that we are not seeing a slow down.

In response to a question in the chat, Mr. Aniszczyk noted that there will be a KubeDay India in 2023 and a KubeCon India in 2024\.

**Training and Certification Update**  
Mr. Aniszczyk shared updates from LF training and certification revenue. He noted that historically most training and certifications have been based on Kubernetes. In the past 12 months, we’ve focused on creating training for other projects like Prometheus, OpenTelemetry, Argo, and others. He noted that we won’t see revenue from those until next year, but they are actively being produced. 

He mentioned that there are 100+ Certified Kubernetes Conformance partners. He spoke to the growth of the Intro to Kubernetes MOOC course, which is currently over 300K registered. He mentioned the 245+ Kubernetes Certified Service Providers and 60+ Kubernetes Training Partners. He noted that we are also looking to expand the KTP program to other projects outside K8s.

Mr. Wright asked if more investment would help resolve bottlenecks in training and certification. Mr. Aniszczyk noted that it is not a budget issue, but rather finding the correct SMEs. Ms. Sharma asked if projects are aware of new training and how projects can contribute. Mr. Aniszczyk responded that we do share with the project community and are looking for feedback.   
   
**Marketing Updates**  
Ms. Smolensky provided highlights around CNCF marketing, including two new case studies, six published reports (including the KubeCon EU Transparency Report and GitopsCon Transparency Report), two new Humans of Cloud Native profiles, 168 online programs booked and 21 hosted KCDs. Ms. Smolensky also shared recent PR and AR highlights, including a CNBC article featuring a deaf member of the TAG Contributor Strategy Deaf and Hard of Hearing Working Group. 

**Kubecon \+ CloudNativeCon Updates & CNCF Event Updates**  
Ms. Brown presented the statistics from KubeCon EU, including 10,500K registrants and 57% first time attendees. She noted that we are also wanting to reach out to attendees from previous events that have not attended lately. Ms. Brown thanked the sponsor and sales team for bringing in a record number of EU sponsors at 216\. She noted that we are seeing a good pace in sponsors for NA and EU, but that China is a bit more difficult to get sponsors. 

Ms. Brown presented statistics about KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon EU 2023 in Amsterdam. She  also reviewed details for KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon North America in Chicago. She thanked all of the sponsors. She noted that we originally expected 9K registrations for NA, but now it is looking to be closer to 10K. She mentioned that it is very difficult to predict due to changing trendlines. 

Ms. Rice asked how registration looks for co-located events. Ms. Brown noted that we are about to sell out of the All Access passes. She mentioned that sponsorships for co-los are down though.

Also, she reviewed the upcoming KubeDays \+ Project Events for Q3 and Q4 2023\. 

Ms. Brown shared the current numbers around KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon \+ OS Summit China in September 2023\. She noted the reduction in sponsorship and attendance. She also mentioned that we made the decision to hold the event fairly late, which affects the numbers. There were more events this year competing for attendance and sponsorship and geopolitical concerns for international participants. She said that LF is working on a revised strategy for China events in 2024\. 

Ms. Brown reviewed the 2024 upcoming events, highlighting that we will be holding KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon India. Ms. Brown mentioned that we will be holding a CloudNativeSecurityCon in Israel in September 2024\.

Ms. Brown noted that we want to have companies be able to budget for these events far in advance, so we are releasing the full 2024 conference schedule now.

Ms. Brown spoke to the updated CNCF hosted project and co-located event guidelines. These guidelines were updated to ensure equity amongst projects, ensure ample time to support projects, ensure financial responsibility, and make sure event benefits are transparent.

Ms. Brown noted that 2024 sponsorship prospectus will no longer have a diamond lottery and will be sold on a first-come, first-served basis. 

Ms. Brown reviewed Kubernetes Community Days, including ones that have already been held in 2023 plus the ones remaining.

**Joint Meeting of the Governing Board and Technical Oversight Committee (TOC)**  
*The CNCF TOC joined the call at 10:00 AM PT for a joint session of the Governing Board and TOC*

**TOC Chair Update**  
Ms. Raghunath shared that the TOC has actively been listening and addressing concerns expressed by the community. The process for projects moving levels is not as clear or expeditious as desired, so a task force has been formed to develop improvements to the process. Additionally, projects’ experience with the TOC differs based on individuals’ availability. Ms. Raghunath noted that while some TAGs are thriving, other TAGs are less active and need more contributors to grow. She noted that monitoring project health is not efficient and will be improved. Overall, TOC processes are not clearly documented in one place causing confusion and will also be improved.

Ms. Raghunath reviewed the changes being made to define and improve the TOC’s work. She stated their guiding goals as sustaining committed work, improving how the TOC executes committed work, and increasing the visibility in committed and additional ad hoc work.  

Ms. Raghunath defined the current work the TOC is working on, including initial project criteria for moving levels taskforce, Sandbox Annual Review pilot with TAGs, more clear Liaison delegation of approvals for TAGs, workload input to build a new CNCF TOC Project Board and input to End User TAB. Ms. Raghunath shared that the TOC met in person on September 6-7 at WasmCon. They engaged on core TOC principles and a roadmap of work.

Ms. Lee thanked the TOC for their work and putting it to scale. 

**Project Updates**  
Mr. Aniszczyk reviewed recent project highlights, noting that we currently have 172 projects. He reviewed project-level updates and new projects, including 21 sandbox projects in the backlog. 

Mr. Aniszczyk reviewed a summary of the Maintainer Survey results for 2023 H1. Highlighting 84% maintainer satisfaction, 88% of maintainers reporting they are satisfied with CNCF staff response time and 88% would recommend CNCF for other projects. He mentioned key takeaways from the maintainer survey, including that projects could use support with community, end user engagement, intra-project collaboration opportunities, and events. He noted that moving levels is a pain point, but that we have a task force to focus on it.

Mr. Blecker asked what the response rate was for the survey. Mr. Aniszczyk noted that around 15-20% of maintainers responded. Mr. Blecker asked if there are any other ways to engage with maintainers since we are getting low response rates. Mr. Anizczyk noted that CNCF holds monthly meetings and that there are other various initiatives around CNCF to connect with maintainers. He mentioned communicating with maintainers in their booths and the hallway track at KubeCon.

Mr. Aniszczyk shared the growing community with mentorships, noting a goal of 150 mentorship projects this year. He noted that this comes from a mix of LFX mentorships, Google Summer of Code and Google Season of Docs. There are big success stories coming from the program and highlighted in Humans of Cloud Native. He asked the board to encourage their maintainers to get involved in mentoring if they can or if they have any candidates for Humans of Cloud Native in their organizations to reach out to CNCF staff.

Mr. Aniszczyk presented recent security audits and fuzzing improvements, noting 50 critical high or medium findings, 196 security improvements and 73 tools built or improved. 

Mr. Aniszczyk previewed the new Wasm Sub Landscape.

Mr. Aniszczyk provided an update around the cloud credit governance services. He shared that LF has funded and hired a dedicated LF IT staff member to help with cloud-related ServiceDesk requests. He noted they are currently in the process of restructuring all CNCF cloud-related resources to streamline access to LF IT / CNCF staff. 

Mr. Sica reviewed Kubernetes infrastructure numbers as of August 29, 2023\. 

Mr. Sica noted the prow EKS cluster has been created and the community onboarding tests. There continues to be ongoing efforts to remove references to k8s.gcr.io in-tree and throughout the ecosystem. Mr. Sica shared that Kubernetes Release is now being signed/ served via Open Build Service. 

Mr. Aniszczyk and Ms. Lee thanked Mr. Sica, AWS, Fastly, and many other Kubernetes SIG infra members for their involvement and improving the program. 

**End User Ecosystem**  
Mr. Dolezal announced the new Zero to Merge program, a four-week incubator program where participants  learn how to contribute successfully to CNCF projects, communicate effectively with CNCF project maintainers, identify existing problems, and collaborate on open GitHib issues. He noted that we received almost 900 applicants for this program, despite little marketing effort, of which 363 applicants were accepted into the initial cohort. So far this program has been well-received with a high satisfaction rating  and some positive early results including merged contributions. Ms. Lee noted that we are looking to expand this program due to the initial success.

Mr. Dolezal shared the growing numbers of project contributions by CNCF end user members. Backstage has the most contributions from end users, by a wide margin.

Mr. Dolezal and Ms. Lee presented a proposal for launch of a new End User Technical Advisory Board (TAB), which will serve as the voice of end users in our ecosystem. CNCF collected feedback from the End User community, Governing Board and TOC members to develop the proposal. Mr. Dolezal reviewed the proposed purpose and scope of the TAB, including providing feedback to projects from an End User perspective, reviewing and approving reference architectures, facilitating communication between end users and the GB/TOC, and much more. 

Ms. Lee reviewed the TAB’s proposed composition, eligibility rules, term lengths, proposed changes to End User representation on the TOC, and the governance and decision-making. 

**Resolution \#2 \- Updated End User TAB Charter**  
Ms. Lee presented the resolution to approve the amendments to the CNCF Charter related to the End User Technical Advisory Board.

* Ms. Rice motioned  
* Mr. Blecker seconded  
* All in favor, none opposed 

**RESOLVED:** The amendments to the CNCF Charter related to the End User Technical Advisory Board, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B, are hereby confirmed, approved, and adopted.

**Schedule for 2023**  
Ms. O’Connor communicated the 2023 Governing Board schedule. The next strategy session will be November 8th in Chicago. She noted there will be a Board Town Hall session directly following the strategy session. Ms. O’Connor shared CNCF’s last meeting of the year will be on December 12, 2023 via teleconference.   

Ms. Lee requested that GB members that wish to participate in the Town Hall inform Mr. Gupta, Ms. Lee, and Ms. O’Connor.

Ms. Lee reviewed the proposed agenda for the Strategy Session in Chicago.

Mr. Han asked for more clarity around the proposed topic of The Future of Cloud Native. Mr. Aniszczyk noted that it will be an overview of the landscape and what is missing. The updated Cloud Native definition will also be shared and discussed. The topic will be less technical and more informative. 

Ms. Lee invited the board to share feedback for proposed agenda topics at KubeCon NA Strategy Session in Chicago. She also asked the board if they would be open to inviting the new End User TAB to the strategy session. In the chat, multiple governing board members expressed support for inviting the End User TAB to join the strategy session, and no governing board members expressed concerns or objections.

**Special Announcements**  
Mr. Moore welcomed Daniel Krook, Senior Director of Developer Experience, to the CNCF team.

Ms. Lee thanked everyone for their participation.

The meeting was adjourned at 11:00 AM PT.
