# **Cloud Native Computing Foundation**

Minutes of a meeting of the Governing Board 

March 12, 2025

A meeting of the Governing Board of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (“CNCF”), which is part of The Linux Foundation, was held on March 12, 2025, from 4:30 PM \- 6:30 PM PT via Zoom LFX.

The following members of the Governing Board, constituting a quorum under the CNCF Charter, were present:

Mark Yi, Alibaba Cloud  
Alena Prokharchyk, Apple  
Jeremy Garcia, Datadog  
Justin Dustzadeh, Equinix   
Jan Melén, Ericsson  
Takao Indoh, Fujitsu	  
April Kyle Nassi, Google  
Vish Abrams, Heroku  
Yuichi Nakamura, Hitachi  
Arun Gupta, Intel, Chairperson  
Sebastian Scheele, Kubermatic  
Lachie Evenson, Microsoft  
Alan Clark, SUSE (alternate)  
Craig Box, Developer Seat  
Christoph Blecker, Developer Seat  
Emily Fox, TOC Chair

Also in attendance were:  
Huxing Zhang, Alibaba (alternate)  
William Deniss, Google (alternate)  
Mario Fahlandt, Kubermatic (alternate)  
Bridget Kromhout, Microsoft (alternate)				  
Davanum Srinivas, TOC  
Jeremy Rickard, TOC  
Ricardo Aravena, TOC  
Karena Angell, TOC (Incoming Chair)  
Chad Beaudin, TAB/TOC  
Benjamin Somogyi, TAB  
Joseph Sandoval, TAB  
Chris Aniszczyk, CNCF  
Joanna Lee, CNCF  
Taylor Waggoner, CNCF  
Paige O’Connor, CNCF  
Daniel Krook, CNCF  
Brian Douglas, CNCF  
Vanessa Heric, CNCF  
Angela Brown, The Linux Foundation  
Casey Robinson, The Linux Foundation  
Todd Moore, The Linux Foundation

Ms. Lee called the meeting to order at 4:32 PM PT. She welcomed the board members to the call and thanked everyone for attending. Ms. Lee then reviewed the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy Notice, confirmed that quorum was present, and reviewed the meeting agenda.

Ms. Lee welcomed the new Governing Board CNCF members and alternates. The new primary members introduced themselves to the board.

**Voting Matters**  
Ms. Lee gave an overview of the two resolutions that will be voted on during the meeting.

**Budget and Financial Update**  
Mr. Moore reviewed the 2024 financials. Ms. Robinson noted that we found efficiencies and actual expenses were less than budgeted in a number of areas . 

Ms. Robinson presented the 2025 budget and revenue projections, noting that nothing has changed from the previous board meeting where this was presented. There will be a midyear reforecast later this year. 

Ms. Robinson reviewed the actuals for 2025, through January. No new plans to note for the 2025 budget that was presented on December 5, 2024\.

Mr. Moore mentioned that we continue be conservative with the budget and also look for places to save money.

**Legal and Governance**  
Ms. Lee presented the License exception for OpenTofu's MPL-2.0 license and the proposed amendments to the CNCF Charter. She reviewed the changes that were shared with the board in the pre-read material prior to the meeting.

    
**CNCF Charter Amendments**  
Ms. Lee presented proposed amendments to the CNCF Charter, attached to these minutes as Exhibit A, to: remove an outdated provision to extend platinum membership at start-up pricing, remove the requirement to use the Cornell voting tool for Governing Board Chair and TOC elections, require Condorcet-IRV voting for GB Chair elections only when there are more than 2 candidates, and add a new provision to enable the TOC to fill vacancies. Because vacancies could be filled by individuals serving in a TOC Shadow role, Ms. Fox provided an overview of the new TOC shadow program.

The board unanimously approved the resolution below:

**RESOLVED:** That the amendments to the CNCF Charter presented are hereby approved and adopted.

Ms. Lee noted that, under the CNCF Charter, CNCF projects must be completely licensed under an OSI-approved open source license, and if not Apache 2.0, the license would need to be approved by the CNCF Governing Board. OpenTofu has applied to join CNCF. Their project license is Mozilla Public License version 2.0, a weak copyleft OSI-approved open source license. She noted that there were previously two optional working sessions to discuss this issue.

Ms. Fox, as TOC Chair, explained why the TOC believes it would be strategically beneficial to the ecosystem for OpenTofu to join CNCF.  

Mr. Abrams asked if the CNCF had asked OpenTofu to switch licenses to Apache 2.0.  Mr. Aniszczyk stated it was not an option for a re-licensing.

Ms. Lee noted that the CNCF Legal Committee voted to recommend approval of the requested license exception. 

**OpenTofu's MPL-2.0 license**  
The resolution below passed with a majority vote:

**RESOLVED:** That, if OpenTofu’s inclusion in CNCF is approved by the CNCF Technical Oversight Committee, an exception to the CNCF IP Policy to allow OpenTofu’s use of Mozilla Public License Version 2.0 as its overall project license for inbound and outbound contributions is hereby approved.

Ms. Lee reviewed the results of the first Cloud Native Heroes Challenge, which launched at KubeCon NA 2024\.

**Education Updates**  
Mr. Aniszczyk presented the most recent updates regarding CNCF Education. He shared that the Kubestronaut program, CNCF’s first recognition program, launched at KubeCon Paris and continues to be a great success. CNCF is targeting 2,500 Kubestronauts by the end of the year. He noted that the Golden Kubestronaut will be announced in London, to recognize those individuals who have passed all of CNCF’s certifications.

Mr. Aniszczyk provided training and certification highlights, including two new Cloud Native certifications and an upcoming Kubernetes Network Engineer certification, focused on networking and CCNA types.

He noted that registration for the free Kubernetes course continues to grow. 

**Project Updates**  
Mr. Aniszczyk noted that CNCF currently has 226 projects, having accepted 18 sandbox projects so far in 2025\. He mentioned that review backlogs are being cleared faster with the new processes now in place. Mr. Aniszczyk then reviewed recent project graduations and moves to incubating status, as well as the 18 new sandbox projects.

Mr. Aniszczyk reviewed the CNCF mentorship program, stating that CNCF continues to invest in mentorship. He noted that many mentees continue to contribute to the CNCF ecosystem after their mentorship terms conclude. He also said that there is a focus on increasing the conversion from mentees to maintainers, with 15 LFX mentees becoming maintainers since 2020\. Mr. Aniszczyk recommended to the board to encourage employees to get involved in the mentorship program.

**Joint Meeting of the Governing Board, Technical Oversight Committee (TOC), and End User Technical Advisory Board (TAB)**  
*The CNCF TOC and TAB joined the meeting at 5:15 PM PT for a joint session of the Governing Board, TOC, and End User TAB*

**Event Updates**  
Ms. Heric presented wrap-ups for KubeCon NA 2024 and India 2024, noting that India sold out at 3,022 registered attendees. 

Ms. Heric reviewed sponsorship numbers for KubeCon EU.  
        
Ms. Heric discussed upcoming 2025 Events, including KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCons in EU, NA, Japan, China and India. Sponsorships for Japan and India are pacing really well. There is really strong interest in sponsorships for KubeCon Atlanta.

Ms. Brown noted that registration for KubeCon London is pacing well and will likely sell out.

She also reviewed other 2025 events, including OTel Community Day, gRPCConf, and Open Source SecurityCon, noting that more information will be available soon.

**End User Ecosystem**  
Ms. Lee announced Brian Douglas as a new hire to lead the End User program. Mr. Douglas introduced himself to the board.

Ms. Lee also reviewed the new end user members and supporters that have joined CNCF since the last meeting in December.

Ms. Lee announced the new members of the End User Technical Advisory Board.

**TOC Chair Updates**  
Ms. Fox introduced the new members of the Technical Oversight Committee (TOC), including the two new Shadow members.

Ms. Fox reviewed ongoing TOC activities including Sandbox application review, evaluating Incubating and Graduated projects, and that 13 projects are undergoing health evaluation and potential archive. 

Ms. Fox reviewed enhancement activities, specifically around a TAG reboot. The changes are expected to go into effect post-KubeCon EU. Additionally, Ms. Fox spoke about collaboration with the End User TAB, formally documenting the moving levels criteria, and OpenSSF’s baselines.

Ms. Fox noted that the TOC is getting feedback from maintainers for how to improve project health reviews and that the TOC will hold public health meetings each 3rd Tuesday of the first month of the quarter.

Ms. Fox also noted the TOC shadow program, the TAG Reboot Workshop at Maintainer Summit, and TOC Moving Levels Office Hours.

Ms. Fox introduced Karena Angell as the next TOC Chair. 

**Marketing**  
Mr. Aniszczyk announced that the 2024 Annual Report will be released soon and reviewed key highlights. He also noted that the 2024 Annual Survey will be released around the KubeCon EU timeframe.

**Schedule for 2025 and General Announcements**  
Ms. O’Connor communicated the Governing Board schedule for 2025\. Ms. O’Connor noted that there will be an in-person board meeting at OSS in Denver on June 25, 2025\.

Ms. Lee announced the Governing Board Buddy Program and encouraged governing board members who have served 1+ years to volunteer to mentor new Governing Board members.

Ms. Lee encouraged the board members and legal counsel to attend the NPE Deterrence webinar on March 13\.

Ms. Lee announced that Ms. O’Connor’s last day with CNCF is March 13, 2025\. All future questions can be directed to Ms. Waggoner or Ms. Lee.

The board meeting concluded at 5:39 PM PT.
