# **Cloud Native Computing Foundation**

Minutes of a meeting of the Governing Board

December 3, 2025

A meeting of the Governing Board of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (“CNCF”), which is part of The Linux Foundation, was held on December 3, 2025, from 2:00 PM \- 4:00 PM PT via Zoom.

The following members of the Governing Board, constituting a quorum under the CNCF Charter, were present:

Li (Mark) Yi, Alibaba Cloud  
Jim Beyers, CVS Health  
Jeremy Garcia, Datadog  
Jan Melén, Ericsson  
Takao Indoh, Fujitsu  
April Kyle Nassi, Google  
Betty Junod, Heroku  
Yuichi Nakamura, Hitachi  
Sebastian Scheele, Kubermatic  
Lachlan Evenson, Microsoft  
Jeff Hoffman, Oracle (alternate)  
Brad Topol, Red Hat/IBM (alternate)  
Maximilian Braun, SAP  
Alan Clark, SUSE (alternate)  
Craig Box, Developer Seat  
Christoph Blecker, Developer Seat, Chair  
Karena Angell, TOC Chair  
Ricardo Rocha, TAB Chair

Also in attendance were:  

William Deniss, Google (alternate)  
Mario Fahlandt, Kubermatic (alternate)  
Chad Beaudin, TAB/TOC  
Henrik Blixt, TAB  
Kenta Tada, TAB  
Michael Amundson, TAB  
Jonathan Bryce, CNCF  
Chris Aniszczyk, CNCF  
Joanna Lee, CNCF  
Taylor Waggoner, CNCF  
Daniel Krook, CNCF  
Vanessa Heric, CNCF  
Casey Robinson, The Linux Foundation  
Todd Moore, The Linux Foundation

Ms. Lee called the meeting to order at 2:02 PM PT. She welcomed the board members to the call and thanked everyone for attending. She reviewed the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy Notice and reviewed the meeting agenda.

Ms. Lee welcomed the new Governing Board CNCF members and alternates. 

**2025 Budget Actuals and 2026 Proposed Budget**  
Mr. Bryce reviewed 2025 budget actuals and presented the 2026 revenue projections. He shared the 2026 budget, noting that the goal will be to run a break-even budget in 2026\. Discussion ensued. 

Mr. Bryce presented the resolution to approve the 2026 CNCF budget. The following resolution was unanimously approved:

**RESOLVED:** That the 2026 Budget presented to the board is hereby approved.

* Mr. Blecker motioned  
* Mr. Evenson seconded  
* All in favor, none opposed 

**Governance**  
Mr. Blecker reviewed the recent proposal to create 1-2 vice chair positions within the CNCF Governing Board. The chair positions would ensure governance continuity, diversity of perspectives in board leadership, and sharing of the workload. He asked the board to provide feedback on the proposal by the December 17 deadline.

**Membership Updates**  
Ms. Lee presented updates to CNCF member benefits, noting that the goal of the refresh is to enhance the value and impact of membership and that changes will go into effect in January 2026\.

Updates include new formats for live content, enhanced promotion by CNCF, and strategic thought leadership campaigns focused on CNCF’s priority focus areas: Cloud Native AI, Platform Engineering, Observability, Cloud Native Security, and WebAssembly. Ms. Lee noted that we will still accept content outside of the focus areas, but we will be doing proactive calls for content around those five pillars.

Ms. Lee reviewed new benefits for members related to data and market insights. This includes early access to the State of Cloud Native report, custom analysis through use of the member Data Dashboard, and permission to reference research data in members’ sales and marketing content. 

Ms. Lee also touched on the updates to LF Education benefits for 2026, including expanded discounts, increased flexibility for management of education benefits, and that signing an MSA will no longer be required. She mentioned that end user members will no longer be able to substitute training vouchers for an annual subscription, due to low utilization of this benefit.

**2026 Strategy**  
Mr. Bryce reviewed CNCF’s five high priority tech focus areas that were reaffirmed at the CNCF Strategy Session at KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon Atlanta: Cloud Native AI, Platform Engineering, Observability, Cloud Native Security, and WebAssembly. Mr. Bryce walked through highlights of the discussion at the strategy session.

Regarding Cloud Native AI, Mr. Bryce noted that there is a big opportunity for Cloud Native to own inferencing. CNCF’s new Certified Kubernetes AI Conformance Program is designed to address the lack of standardization of AI workload stacks. He noted that since this area is moving so quickly, now is not the time to expand AI-related training and certifications, as they could become outdated quickly.

Mr. Bryce reviewed the Platform Engineering topic, noting that CNCF is encouraging the contribution of PE-related reference architectures.

He noted that WASM is an emerging future-looking technology, but the category is very specific and there may be a better phrase to capture the top-level theme. He mentioned that CNCF is open to feedback on how to phrase this topic/category.

Mr. Bryce mentioned that AI Observability is lacking and that vendors are providing their own solutions in the absence of good open source solutions. 

He noted that AI security, such as agentic security, was a big topic at KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon NA. He mentioned that a potential gap in tooling is the “SBOM inside the container” and that the intersection of AI and Cloud Native security is an important investment area.

Mr. Bryce requested that Governing Board, TOC, and TAB members continue to provide input on CNCF strategy for 2026, including the five high priority tech focus areas. He mentioned that CNCF leadership is welcoming suggestions for the format of these continued discussions, noting that it could take the form of a collaborative SWOT analysis, similar to the one done in 2022\.

**Joint Meeting of the Governing Board, Technical Oversight Committee (TOC), and End User Technical Advisory Board (TAB)**  
*The CNCF TOC and TAB joined the meeting at 2:45 PM PT for a joint session of the Governing Board, TOC, and End User TAB*

**Project Updates**  
Mr. Aniszczyk reviewed 2025 project highlights, mentioning that CNCF has added 29 projects this year, for a total of 235\. He also noted that review backlogs and onboarding checklists are being cleared faster with the new processes in place.

Mr. Aniszczyk highlighted newly Graduated projects and projects that have moved to Incubation, as well as the 29 new Sandbox projects.

He also provided an update on the recently launched Kubernetes AI Conformance Program, noting the initial adopters and major contributors. He highlighted positive press that the program has received since its launch.

Mr. Aniszczyk commended the TOC for all of their hard work this year.

**TOC Chair Update**  
Ms. Angell reviewed TOC committed activities, including Sandbox applications and quarterly reviews. She noted that the TOC is trying to get to Sandbox “zero” by the end of the year. She also reviewed the various Incubation and Graduation reviews, such as governance, tech, and green reviews, and security assessments. 

She noted enhancements activities such as improvements to the Moving Levels process, that TOC restructuring has moved to Phase 2, and the upcoming Toolbox category. She noted that now that the 2026 CNCF Budget has been approved, the TOC can now move forward with finalizing the Toolbox category early next year.

Ms. Angell also reviewed TOC health activities, including improvements to the LFX project dashboards in collaboration with the TAB, quarterly project health reviews to identify projects that need assistance, and a refresh of graduated projects due diligence. She noted that the TOC will provide an update on the graduated project status refresh at the next board meeting.

She mentioned that there is also project coaching and governance review work being done regarding the Moving Levels process.

She noted that TOC elections will be held after the Governing Board elections are complete. She reminded the meeting participants that there is an expected time commitment of 10-25% of monthly regular work time for TOC members. She thanked the current TOC members for all of their hard work this year.

**End User Program Update**  
Ms. Lee reviewed the recently launched End User Contributor program as well as new end user members. Ms. Lee also highlighted the recent CNCF Technology Radar on AI Inferencing, ML Orchestration, and Agentic AI Tools and Platforms.

**TAB Chair Updates**  
Mr. Rocha reviewed recent updates from the End User TAB, including improved engagement since the TAB offsite at KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon Atlanta. He noted that the TAB holds public meetings, with the next being December 15th, and that the TAB is actively working to establish an agenda for these meetings three months in advance.

Mr. Rocha mentioned that the TAB is trying to increase visibility in the End User Community through communications like the CNCF blog. He noted that the TAB is continuing to work closely with the LFX Insights team. He highlighted an upcoming feature in LFX Insights called “Key projects”.

He reviewed TAB priorities such as finalizing the review of End User groups, planning an End User track or summit for KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon EU 2026, and reviewing reference architecture submissions.

In response to a question about whether the TAB is seeking any specific reference architecture topics, Mr. Rocha noted that they are looking for AI and Observability reference architectures. He also noted that companies can publish reference architectures anonymously if needed.

**Event Updates**  
Ms. Heric reviewed 2025 KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon events, noting that the transparency report for KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon NA will be available in mid-December. She thanked all of the 2025 event sponsors. Ms. Heric also reviewed completed 2025 project events.

Ms. Heric presented details about the five upcoming 2026 KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon events.

She noted that the location change for KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon NA 2026, from Los Angeles to Salt Lake City, was due to upcoming construction at the Los Angeles Convention Center that would reduce the space available for KubeCon NA. After a venue search across the US and Canada, Salt Lake City was selected as the best available option.

**Education Updates**  
Mr. Aniszczyk provided updates regarding the continued growth of the Kubestronaut program.

He also reviewed 2025 CNCF Education highlights, including newly released or refreshed certifications, upcoming certifications, actions to protect trademarks, and the launch of the Academic Accreditation Program.

Mr. Aniszczyk also noted that the free Intro to Kubernetes course continues to grow, with a total of more than 425,000 registrants since it launched. 

**Upcoming CNCF Elections**  
Ms. Waggoner noted that CNCF elections will kick off in early January, starting with the Governing Board elections for silver, gold, and the graduated/incubating (non-Kubernetes) developer seat. 

The TAB election will begin in mid-January, starting with the silver and gold election. The At-Large election will kick off once the silver/gold election completes.

The TOC election schedule has not been finalized. CNCF staff will send the schedule out to the board, TOC, and TAB once available.

**Schedule for 2026**  
Ms. Lee reviewed the tentative GB meeting schedule for 2026, noting the survey that was sent out to gather feedback for proposed in-person meetings at various CNCF or LF events.

The board meeting concluded at 3:25 PM PT.
