# **Cloud Native Computing Foundation**

Minutes of a meeting of the Governing Board

March 10, 2026

A meeting of the Governing Board of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (“CNCF”), which is part of The Linux Foundation, was held on March 10, 2026, from 9:00 \- 11:00 AM PT via Zoom.

The following members of the Governing Board, constituting a quorum under the CNCF Charter, were present:

Xu Wang, Ant Group  
Mike Stefaniak, Amazon Web Services	  
Jim Beyers, CVS Health  
Jeremy Garcia, Datadog  
Jan Melén, Ericsson  
Takao Indoh, Fujitsu  
Mike Bufano, Google  
Yuichi Nakamura, Hitachi  
Jatinder Singh, Infosys (alternate)  
Sebastian Scheele, Kubermatic  
Max Körbächer, Liquid Reply  
Bridget Kromhout, Microsoft (alternate)  
Sudha Raghavan, Oracle  
Brad Topol, Red Hat/IBM (alternate)  
Maximilian Braun, SAP  
Liz Rice, Developer Seat  
Christoph Blecker, Developer Seat, Chair  
Karena Angell, TOC Chair  
Ricardo Rocha, TAB Chair

Also in attendance were:

Alolita Sharma	, Apple (alternate), TAB  
William Deniss, Google (alternate)  
Mario Fahlandt, Kubermatic (alternate)  
Jeff Hoffman, Oracle (alternate)  
Michael Amundson, TAB  
Chad Beaudin, TAB/TOC  
Katie Gamanji, TAB/TOC  
Davanum Srinivas, TOC  
Faseela K, TOC  
Jeremy Rickard, TOC  
Kevin Wang, TOC  
Ricardo Aravena, TOC  
Jonathan Bryce, CNCF  
Chris Aniszczyk, CNCF  
Joanna Lee, CNCF  
Bob Killen, CNCF  
Daniel Krook, CNCF  
Taylor Waggoner, CNCF  
Vanessa Heric, CNCF  
Todd Moore, The Linux Foundation

Ms. Lee called the meeting to order at 9:04 AM PT. 

She welcomed the board members to the call and thanked everyone for attending. She reviewed the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy Notice and reviewed the meeting agenda.

Ms. Lee welcomed the new Governing Board members and alternates. 

**Governance**  
Mr. Blecker congratulated the new governing board vice chairs, Lachlan Evenson and Jan Melén.

Ms. Lee announced that a new public Governing Board repository has been established. This repository will house public board policies as well as public meeting minutes and email votes, previously available on cncf.io.

Ms. Lee noted that the CNCF Legal Committee is drafting a policy regarding temporary exceptions for security vulnerabilities and will share with the governing board for feedback and approval once ready.

**Membership Updates**  
Ms. Lee reviewed a summary of new members that have joined CNCF since the last meeting in December, including two new gold members.

Mr. Bryce presented a proposal to increase the membership pricing for several tiers of silver members that were not included in the previous Silver member pricing adjustment that went into effect in early 2025\. Pricing for these remaining tiers of Silver members have not been adjusted in the 10+ years of CNCF’s existence, despite increased costs due to inflation and expanded member programs and benefits. 

Mr. Bryce noted that the proposal included creation of a new tier for companies with 10 or fewer employees. To ensure that membership in CNCF is still affordable to early stage startups, membership dues would not be increased for this new small company tier.

Mr. Bryce reviewed the factors considered for this increase, the revenue projections, and the proposed timeline.

The following resolution was unanimously approved:

**RESOLVED,** that the Governing Board hereby approves the membership fee changes for Silver Members set forth below: 

| Employee Size | Current Annual Fee | Updated Annual Fee |
| :---: | :---: | :---: |
| 1 – 10 | $2,000 | **$2,000** |
| 11 – 99 | $2,000 | **$5,000** |
| 100 – 499 | $5,000 | **$10,000** |
| 500 – 999 | $10,000 | **$20,000** |
| 1,000 – 2,999 | $30,000 | $30,000 |
| \> 3,000 | $50,000 | $50,000 |

* Mr. Blecker motioned  
* Mr. Scheele seconded  
* All in favor, none opposed 

**Joint Meeting of the Governing Board, Technical Oversight Committee (TOC), and End User Technical Advisory Board (TAB)**  
*The CNCF TOC and TAB joined the meeting at 9:25 AM PT for a joint session of the Governing Board, TOC, and End User TAB*

**Project Updates**  
Mr. Aniszczyk reviewed 2026 project highlights, including the total count of current active projects and recent level changes. He noted that CNCF is still attracting high quality projects like llm-d and velero.

**TOC Chair Update**  
Ms. Angell reviewed the TOC’s committed activities for sandbox, incubating, and graduated projects. 

Ms. Angell noted that the TOC has increased its use of automation and continues to assess AI tools to assist with the moving levels process. She noted that the TAG restructuring is complete and that the Toolbox category for “utility” projects is projected for Q3-2026.

Ms. Angell reviewed the time commitment and expectations for TOC members, noting that the TOC elections will take place after KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon EU 2026\. 

**End User Program Update**  
Ms. Lee reviewed new end user members since the December 2025 board meeting. 

**TAB Chair Updates**  
Mr. Rocha reviewed updates from the End User TAB, including recent public meeting topics, the TAB’s work with the LFX Insights team, and upcoming blogs that will be published during KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon EU.

Mr. Rocha also highlighted upcoming reference architectures and sessions relevant to end users at KubeCon EU.

**Event Updates**  
Ms. Heric reviewed final transparency reports for Q4-2025 events and all 2025 virtual events. She reviewed current registration and sponsorship data for KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon EU. She noted that the Linux Foundation is closely monitoring the situation in the Middle East and that CNCF will refund registrations for those not able to attend KubeCon EU due to travel cancellations.

She presented details and important dates about the four other 2026 KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon events, as well as additional 2026 CNCF events.

Ms. Heric reviewed and thanked the sponsors for KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon EU.

**Education Updates**  
Mr. Aniszczyk provided updates regarding the continued growth of the Kubestronaut program, noting that there are currently over 300 Golden Kubestonauts.

He also reviewed 2026 CNCF Education highlights, including an update for the recertification process, the upcoming Certified Kubernetes Network Engineer (CKNE) certification, and that the Academic Accreditation Program is live and accepting applications.

Mr. Aniszczyk also noted that the free Intro to Kubernetes course continues to grow, with a total of more than 430,000 registrants since it launched. 

**Strategic Planning Survey**  
Ms. Lee announced that a strategic planning survey will be circulated to the Governing Board, TOC, and TAB, to be completed ahead of KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon EU. She reviewed discussion topics for the strategy session in Amsterdam.

**Upcoming CNCF Elections**  
Ms. Waggoner noted that the TOC election will kick off after KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon EU, on April 6th. The Code of Conduct Committee election will kick off on March 16\. 

**Schedule for 2026**  
Ms. Lee reviewed the logistics for the upcoming Strategy Session and dinner at KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon EU on March 25\.

Ms. Lee reviewed the GB meeting schedule for 2026\.

The board meeting concluded at 9:58 AM PT.
