**Cloud Native Computing Foundation**

**Minutes of a meeting of the Governing Board**

December 9, 2020

A meeting of the Governing Board of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (“CNCF”), which is part of The Linux Foundation, was held on December 9, 2020 at 9:30 AM PT time via teleconference.

The following members of the Governing Board, constituting a quorum under the CNCF Charter, were present:

Bob Wise, Amazon Web Services  
Arun Gupta, Apple  
Kevin Ryan, Arm  
Vijoy Pandey, Cisco  
Barry Cooks, DigitalOcean  
Amr Abdelhalem, Fidelity Investments  
Tomohiko Tashiro, Fujitsu  
Brendan O’Leary, GitLab  
Aparna Sinha, Google  
Bryan Che, Huawei  
Arjan van de Ven, Intel  
Stephen Chin, JFrog  
Michael Payne, JPMorgan Chase  
Niraj Tolia, Kasten   
Lachie Evenson, Microsoft  
Rob Esker, NetApp  
Shannon Williams, Rancher Labs  
Chris Wright, Red Hat  
Craig McLuckie, VMware  
Liz Rice, TOC Chair  
Michelle Noorali, Developer Seat  
Matt Klein, Developer Seat

Also in attendance were the following:

Alena Prokharchyk, TOC Member  
Justin Cormack, TOC Member  
Saad Ali, TOC Member  
Priyanka Sharma, CNCF  
Chris Aniszczyk, CNCF  
Cheryl Hung, CNCF  
Vanessa Heric, CNCF  
Taylor Waggoner, CNCF  
Bill Mulligan, CNCF  
Katelin Ramer, CNCF  
Jim Zemlin, The Linux Foundation  
Angela Brown, The Linux Foundation  
Stephanie Wigle, The Linux Foundation  
Mike Dolan, The Linux Foundation  
Casey Robinson, The Linux Foundation  
Joanna Lee, Gesmer Updegrove, LF legal counsel

Ms. Sharma called the meeting to order at 9:36 AM PT.

Ms. Sharma welcomed the Governing Board to the meeting and reviewed the purpose of the board meeting.  She also reviewed the antitrust policy and the agenda for the call. Ms. Sharma welcomed the new members to the board and thanked Anni Lai for her service as a primary representative for the past few years.

**Remembering Dan Kohn**  
Ms. Sharma spoke about the recent loss of Dan Kohn.  She mentioned the memorial page that The Linux Foundation has set up, as well as the college fund for Dan’s children.

The following resolution was presented to the board and unanimously approved.

**RESOLVED:** That the Board acknowledges the tremendous contributions made by Dan Kohn over his 20 years of engagement with the Linux Foundation and CNCF. Dan was one of the great open source leaders of our time and served as one of the early leaders of CNCF – he was devoted to giving back to the community, improving diversity, and a loving husband and father who will truly be missed. The Board wishes to extend its sincere and heartfelt condolences to Dan’s family, friends, and colleagues.

**Meeting Minutes Discussion**  
Ms. Sharma reminded the governing board that a resolution was passed at the August 31 board meeting to make governing board meeting minutes publicly available, except for text relating to topics (e.g., personnel issues) discussed in Executive Sessions.

The meeting minutes from the Governing Board meeting on August 31, 2020 were approved and adopted.

**Future Virtual Governing Board Meetings**  
A proposal to move the Zoom Governing Board meetings to a webinar format, where primary members would be panelists with Zoom capabilities and alternates would be attendees with chat-only functionality, was agreed to and will be piloted at the next board meeting.

**2020 In Review**  
Ms. Sharma reviewed CNCF’s performance over the past year, including growth in both memberships and training and certification, despite the budget contracting due to the pandemic. 

She noted that membership growth has been steady, with CNCF reaching over 600 members.

CNCF training and certifications have also been growing steadily.  Ms. Sharma mentioned that there were very strong Black Friday / Cyber Monday sales for exams and courses. She noted that the Certified Kubernetes Security Specialist (CKS) exam just launched, so CNCF will also see improved revenue in the near future as the program is fully rolled out.

**CNCF Budget**  
Ms. Sharma noted that sponsorships for KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon NA Virtual were strong and exceeded CNCF’s goal. 

There will be a complete budget reforecast in Q1-2021. Ms. Sharma reviewed the budget categories that are expected to be reforecasted in 2021, including membership, events, marketing, training and certification, and developer collaboration.

**CNCF Governing Board Election**  
Ms. Sharma reviewed the process and timeline for the upcoming Silver and Gold Governing Board election. She also noted that the Developer Seat held by Ms. Noorali is up for re-nomination and that the Kubernetes Steering Committee will determine its own method for making the appointment, per the CNCF [Maintainer Election Policy](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/maintainers-election-policy.md).

She mentioned that the Governing Board committees will be reviewed after the new members join the board in January 2021\.

**Marketing & Community Updates**  
Ms. Sharma welcomed Bill Mulligan as CNCF’s new Marketing Manager.

She also noted that there is a job requisition open for a Content and Comms Manager, as well as a strong candidate for an Integrated Marketing position.

**Joint Meeting of the Governing Board and Technical Oversight Committee (TOC)**  
*The CNCF TOC joined the call at 10:15 am PT for a joint session of the Governing Board and TOC*

Ms. Sharma reviewed the purpose of the joint TOC/Governing Board meeting as well as the agenda items.

**Kubecon \+ CloudNativeCon Updates**  
Ms. Sharma reviewed the initial demographic data from KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon NA Virtual, as well as attendance data from CNCF-hosted co-located events. She mentioned that CNCF is proud that we exceeded our registration goal for North America. Ms. Sharma noted that the North America event also had many companies host their own co-located events.  

She reviewed the different swag options for attendees, including an option for attendees to donate their swag allotment to the CNCF scholarship fund.  

Ms. Sharma noted the jump in sponsorship between KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon EU to North America. She thanked all of the sponsors for their support in achieving these results.

She mentioned that there was a 90% positive experience response from the conference attendees surveyed. She also reviewed the Minimal Viable Changes that were implemented in the North America event based on feedback from the EU event, including increased sponsorship benefits, fewer sessions, an easy to use schedule builder, and the inclusion of the 101 track.

For 2021 events, CNCF is evaluating new virtual platforms to improve the UX experience as well as “watch party” options. The “watch parties” would be smaller, regional in-person events, if pandemic guidelines allow.

Ms. Sharma reviewed the PR highlights from KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon NA Virtual, including 151 press and analysts in attendance.

She mentioned that the CFP is open for KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon EU 2021 Virtual.

There are also plans underway for a hybrid event in China in December 2021\.

Ms. Sharma reviewed the [Inclusive Naming Initiative](https://inclusivenaming.org/).

**Project and Technical Community Updates**  
Mr. Aniszczyk reviewed the CNCF project services team members.  

He noted that CNCF accepted 35 projects in 2020, with nearly 80 total projects under the umbrella.  He mentioned that several SIGs have been added.  He reviewed the projects that graduated this year, as well as audits that CNCF has funded.  Mr. Aniszczyk noted that CNCF funded 70+ internships in 2020 and produced 5 new project journey reports.

Mr. Aniszczyk noted that maintainer satisfaction has improved from last year.

The focus for 2021 is to keep projects satisfied and to expand training options. CNCF will also continue to fund internships and will expand project security services.

He reviewed the projects that have been accepted into CNCF since the last governing board meeting, as well as project maturity level changes.

Mr. Aniszczyk mentioned the creation of the CKS exam, as well as a variety of training courses in areas such as Service Mesh, Logging, and Serverless. He also provided an update on CNCF SIGs, as well as recent project website and documentation work. Mr. Aniszczyk noted that CNCF funded $1M+ in security audits.  He mentioned that Kubernetes will receive an audit in 2021\.

A discussion ensued regarding the value of project security audits.

**Kubecon \+ CloudNativeCon Discussion** 

A discussion ensued regarding the KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon Virtual pricing structure.  

**CNCF End User Community Updates**  
Ms. Hung reviewed the Ecosystem team members, noting that Ms. Gamanji was recently hired as Ecosystem Advocate.  She mentioned that the pandemic has hit end users particularly hard this year.

Ms. Hung reviewed the end user community survey from August 2020, noting that overall satisfaction is fairly high and is up from 2019 survey results.

She noted that 31% of talks and 46% of attendees to KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon NA came from end user companies. 

Ms. Hung noted that the TOC has doubled the number of end user reps from one to two.  She mentioned that part of Ms. Gamanji’s role will be to manage the relationship between end users and projects.

She mentioned that CNCF has published three [Tech Radars](https://radar.cncf.io/) this year, including Continuous Delivery, Observability, and Database Storage.  CNCF has published 17 new end user case studies in 2020\.

Ms. Hung spoke about the new training benefits for CNCF end users that will be launching in January 2021\.

She also reviewed the 2021 OKRs for the End User Community, including increasing visibility to attract new members and maintaining high satisfaction for current members.

Ms. Hung noted that CNCF is launching an end user referral program.

Ms. Sharma noted that there will be Governing Board brainstorm sessions for 2021 planning.

Ms. Sharma called the meeting to a close at 11:02 am PT.
