**Cloud Native Computing Foundation**

Minutes of a meeting of the Governing Board

August 31, 2020

A meeting of the Governing Board of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (“CNCF”), which is part of The Linux Foundation, was held on August 31, 2020 at 8:00 AM PT time via teleconference.

The following members of the Governing Board, constituting a quorum under the CNCF Charter, were present:

Mark Yi, Alibaba Cloud  
Bob Wise, Amazon Web Services  
Arun Gupta, Apple  
Kevin Ryan, Arm  
Vijoy Pandey, Cisco  
Barry Cooks, DigitalOcean  
Amr Abdelhalem, Fidelity Investments  
Tomohiko Tashiro, Fujitsu  
Brendan O’Leary, GitLab  
Aparna Sinha, Google  
Anni Lai, Huawei  
Arjan van de Ven, Intel  
Stephen Chin, JFrog  
Michael Payne, JPMorgan Chase  
Lachie Evenson, Microsoft  
Rob Esker, NetApp  
Jon Mittelhauser, Oracle  
John Morello, Palo Alto Networks  
Shannon Williams, Rancher Labs  
Chris Wright, Red Hat  
Thomas Hertz, SAP  
Michelle Noorali, Developer Seat  
Matt Klein, Developer Seat

Also in attendance were the following:

Alena Prokharchyk, TOC Member  
Katie Gamanji, TOC Member  
Saad Ali, TOC Member  
Sheng Liang, TOC Member  
Priyanka Sharma, CNCF  
Chris Aniszczyk, CNCF  
Dan Kohn, CNCF  
Cheryl Hung, CNCF  
Vanessa Heric, CNCF  
Taylor Waggoner, CNCF  
Jim Zemlin, The Linux Foundation  
Mike Dolan, The Linux Foundation  
Angela Brown, The Linux Foundation  
Andrew Updegrove, Gesmer Updegrove, TLF legal counsel

Ms. Sharma called the meeting to order at 8:03 AM PT.

Ms. Sharma welcomed the Governing Board members and explained that the purpose of the board meeting is for the Governing Board to make decisions pertinent to the operations of CNCF, discuss strategic topics, and engage with the CNCF TOC.

She reviewed the antitrust policy and the agenda for the call. Ms. Sharma welcomed the new members to the board. 

**Meeting Minutes Discussion**  
The meeting minutes from the Governing Board meeting on March 30, 2020 were approved and adopted.

A resolution was presented to the board to make governing board meeting minutes publicly available, except for text relating to topics (e.g., personnel issues) discussed in Executive Sessions. 

**RESOLVED**: That the Governing Board shall make un-attributed meeting minutes excluding executive sessions without slides publicly available within 2 to 4 weeks of the board meeting from today moving forward.

**Impacts of the Coronavirus on CNCF**  
The impacts of the Coronavirus on CNCF and the cloud native community were discussed, including financial impacts on the CNCF and the decision to hold KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon events virtually until in-person events are safe again. While event revenue, and proportionally costs, has decreased due to the Coronavirus pandemic, memberships have been stable and there has been an increase in training revenue to buffer the organization through challenging times.

**2021 CNCF Budget**  
The 2021 CNCF budget was presented to the board by Ms. Sharma and the newly formed Budget Committee. The 2021 budget was approved by the governing board through a vote.

Ms. Sharma recommended that the governing board members who have questions or concerns about the budget attend future budget committee meetings.

**KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon**   
The governing board reviewed demographic data and statistics from the KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon EU Virtual event, as well as some of the results from the post-event survey, including 87% satisfaction with the event. It was noted by CNCF staff that there are many improvements and things being evaluated for the North America event based on CNCF’s experience with KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon EU Virtual. Like previous events, a transparency report for KubeCon \+ CloudNativeCon EU Virtual will be published on the CNCF website by September 21, 2020\.

**Joint Meeting of the Governing Board and Technical Oversight Committee (TOC)**  
*The CNCF TOC joined the call at 9:15 am PT for a joint session of the Governing Board and TOC.*

**Project and Technical Community Updates**  
Mr. Aniszczyk reviewed the project services team and the goals for 2020, including keeping projects satisfied and improving project maintainer onboarding.  He noted that expanding training programs for projects is a new goal for 2020\.  He mentioned that there is a new sandbox project submission process and noted all of the new project updates since the last Governing Board meeting.  He also reviewed updates and changes regarding CNCF training and certification programs and conformance projects. He noted that the [Certified Kubernetes Security Specialist (CKS) program](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/certification/certified-kubernetes-security-specialist/) will be announced at the next conference and formally launched in early 2021\.  CNCF has funded training courses for [Kubernetes](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-to-kubernetes), [Prometheus](https://training.linuxfoundation.jp/training/monitoring-systems-and-services-with-prometheus-lfs241/), [Helm](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/announcements/new-training-course-teaches-kubernetes-application-management-with-helm/), [Fluentd](https://training.linuxfoundation.jp/training/cloud-native-logging-with-fluentd-lfs242/) and [Service Mesh](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/announcements/service-mesh-fundamentals-training-course-now-available/), and there are courses in development for Vitess, Linkerd and more. Additionally, a conformance program for Envoy/xDS is being funded.

Mr. Aniszczyk reviewed the status of CNCF SIGs and noted that there are a number of SIGs now formed and operational, including two new SIGs. He noted that there has been some recent website and documentation work performed for a number of projects, as well as funding many security audits for CNCF’s projects.

Mr. Aniszczyk noted that CNCF has funded the Kubernetes bug bounty at $100,000.

He also reviewed the current mentoring initiatives happening in the CNCF community: [https://github.com/cncf/mentoring](https://github.com/cncf/mentoring)

**End User Community Updates**  
Ms. Hung reviewed recent updates in the CNCF End User Community.

Ms. Hung mentioned that the recent end user community survey indicated an overall high level of satisfaction with CNCF: [https://github.com/cncf/surveys/tree/master/enduser](https://github.com/cncf/surveys/tree/master/enduser).

She reviewed program launches and updates from Q2-20, including the [CNCF Technology Radar](https://www.cncf.io/blog/2020/06/12/introducing-the-cncf-technology-radar/), which helps bridge the projects, TOC and End User Community. 

Ms. Hung mentioned that one of the new questions to the survey this year asked the end users about their contributions to open source and what their blockers are. Ms. Hung noted that one of the main blockers for people is lack of company support for time spent on open source.  There was conversation about how contributions are not just code contributions and include tasks like documentation, PR review, and filing issues.  Mr. Aniszczyk noted several resources available to the community from The Linux Foundation and the TODO Group about contributing to open source. 

**Open Discussion**  
A board member requested more content around CNCF projects, such as how projects are being used in COVID-19 solutions, or how people are evaluating the projects at their companies.  The board member would also like to see content about how cloud native is changing in current times and how cloud native technologies are being consumed.

A TOC member noted that they would like better visibility into what CNCF project benefits are and how they can request support.  Mr. Aniszczyk shared the Services for CNCF projects page from the website which was updated recently: [https://www.cncf.io/services-for-projects/](https://www.cncf.io/services-for-projects/). 

It was noted that there are elections coming up in both the TOC and the Governing Board at the end of the year.

The meeting was called to a close at 9:56 am PT.

